Brawne is best from a fortenight before Mighelmas till Lent. 
 Beife and Bakon is good all times, 
 the yere. Mutton is good at al times, 
 but from Easter to midsommer it is 
 woorst. A fat Pigge is ever in season. 
 A gose is worst in midsommer moone, 
 and best in stubble time, but when they 
 be yonge Greene Geese, than they be 
 best. Veale is best in January and Fe- 
 bruary and all other times good. 
  
 Lambe and young kidde is best be- 
 twene Christmast and Lent, and good 
 from Easter to whitsontide. Kyd is e- 
 ver good. Hennes be good at all tymes 
 but best from November to lent.  Fat 
 Capons be ever in season. Pecockes 
 be ever good: but when they be young 
 and of a good stature, they be as good
as fesantes, and so be young groncis. 
 Sinettes bee best between all Halo- 
 wen day and Lent. A Mallard is good 
 after a frost, till Candelmas, so is a 
  
 [2v] 
  
 Teale and other wyld foule that swim- 
 meth. A woodcocke is best from Oc- 
 tobre to lent, and so be all others byrdes, 
 as Ousels, and Thrushes, Robins, and 
 such other, Hearons, Curlewes, Crane, 
 Bittoure, Bussarde, be at all tymes 
 good, but best in winter, Feasants, Par- 
 triche and Raile, be ever good, but best 
 when they bee taken with a Hauke. 
 Quayle and Larkes be ever in season 
 Connyes be ever good, but best from 
 Octobre to lent. A gelded Deare whe- 
 ther hee be fallow or red, is ever in sea-
son. A Pollard is speciall good in Maye 
 at midsommer he is a Buck, and very 
 good tyll Holy Roode daye before My- 
 ghelmas, so likewise in a stagge, but he 
 is principall in May. A barren Doe is 
 best in winter. A pricket and a sorell 
 sytter is ever in season, chickens be 
 ever good and so be pigeons 
 if they be yonge. 
  
 Hereafter followeth the order of meats 
 how they must be served at the Table 
 with their sauces for flesh daies at dinner. 
  
 [3r] 
  
 The first course. 
 Potage or stewed broth. 
 Boylde meat or stewed 
 meate.
then make your coffin after this man- 
 ner, take a litle fayre water, and halfe 
 a fishe of butter, and a litle Saffron, 
 and set all this upon a chafindyshe, tyll 
 it bee hote, than temper your flower 
 with this sayd licour, and the white of 
 two egges, & also make your coffin and 
 season your Apples with Cinamon, 
 Ginger and Sugar inough. Then put 
 them into your coffin, and bake them. 
  
 To bake Chickins in like paste. 
 Take your chickens & season them with 
 a litle ginger & salt, and so put them into 
 your coffin, & so put in them barberies 
 grapes, or goseberies, & halfe a dish of 
 buttter, so close them up, & set them in the 
 oven, & when they are baken, take the 
  
 [9v]
 
 yolkes of vi. egges, and a dishful of ver- 
 iuyce, and drawe them through a strai- 
 ner, and set them upon a chafingedyshe, 
 then draw your baken chikens, and put 
 therto this foresayd egges and veriuyce 
 and thus serue them hotte. 
  
 To bake pigeons in short paste as you 
 make to your baken Apples. 
 Season your Pigeons with Pepper, 
 Saffron, Cloves and Mace, with ver- 
 iuyce and salt, then put them into your 
 paste, and so close them up, and bake 
 them, they will bake in halfe an houre, 
 then take them foorth, and if ye thinke 
 them dry, take a litle veriuyce and but- 
 ter, and put to them, and so serve them. 
  
 To make Vautes.
Take the kidney of Veale, and par- 
 boyle it till it be tender, then take and 
 chop it small with the yolkes of three 
 or fouer Egges, than season it with 
 dates small cut, small raysins, ginger, 
 Suger, Cinnamon, saffron, and a litle 
 salt, and for the paste to lay it in, take a 
 dosyn of Egges both the white and the 
  
 [10r] 
  
 yolkes, and beate them well altogether 
 then take butter and put into a fryinge 
 pan and frye them as thinne as a Pan- 
 cake, then lay your stuffe therin, and so 
 frye them toghether in a panne, and cast 
 suger and ginger upon it, and so serve it 
 forth. 
  
 To make Pescoddes.
Take marrow boones, and pull the 
 marrowe oute of them, and cut it in 
 two partes, then season it with Suger, 
 cinnamon, ginger, and a litle salte, and 
 make your paste as fine as ye can, and 
 as short and thine as ye can, then frye 
 them in swete suet, and cast upon them 
 a litle Cinnamon and Ginger, and so 
 serve them at the Table. 
  
 To make stockfritures. 
 Take the same stuffe that you take to 
 a vaut, and that same paste ye take for 
 Pescods, and ye may frye them or els 
 bake them. 
  
 To stewe Trypes. 
 Take a pinte of claret wine, and set 
 it upon the fyre and cut your Trypes 
 
[10v] 
  
 in small peces, and thereto put in a good 
 quantity of Cinnamom and ginger, and 
 also a sliced Onion or twaine, and so let 
 them boyle halfe an houre, & then serve 
 them upon soppes. 
  
 To make a pye of Aloes. 
 Take a leg of Mutton, and cut it in 
 thin slices, and for stuffinge of the same 
 take persely, time, and savery, and chop 
 them small, then temper amonge them 
 three or foure yolkes of hard egs chopte 
 small and small raisins, dates, [cut?] with 
 mace and a litle salt, then lay all these 
 in the stekes, and then rolle them toge- 
 ther. This done make your pye, and lay 
 all these therin, than season them with a 
 little suger and cinnamom, saffron, and
Take beanes and boyle them tender in 
 faire water, then take them out and 
 breake them in a morter, and strayne 
 them with the yolkes of foure egges, 
 curde made of milke, then season it up 
 with Suger and halfe a dishe of butter, 
 and a litle cinnamen, and bake it. 
  
 To make a tarte of Goseberies. 
 Take Goseberies and parboyle them 
 in white wine, claret or ale, and boyle 
 withall a litle white bread, then take 
 them up and drawe them throughe a 
 strayner as thicke as you can, with the 
 yolkes of five Egges, then season it up 
 with Suger, halfe a dishe of butter, to 
 bake it. 
  
 To bake a Tarte of Medlars. 
 Take medlars when they be rotten, &
 
 [11v] 
  
 braye them with the yolkes of .iiii. Eg- 
 ges, then season it up with suger and cin- 
 namon and swete butter, and so bake it. 
  
 To make a Tart of Damsons. 
 Take Damsons and boyle them in 
 wine, eyther red or claret, and put ther- 
 to a dosin of peares, or els white bread 
 to make them stuffe withall, then draw 
 them up with the yolkes of six Egges, 
 and sweete butter, and so bake it. 
  
 To make a Tart of Bourage 
 Flowers. 
 Take Borage flowers and parboile 
 them tender, then strayne them with 
 the yolkes of three or foure egges and
sweete curdes, or els take three or fouer 
 apples, and parboyle withall, and strain 
 them with sweete butter, and a little 
 Mace, and so bake it. 
  
 To make a Tart of Marygoldes, 
 prim roses, or Couslips. 
 Take the same stuffe to every of them 
 that you doe to the Tarte of Borage 
 and the same seasoning. 
  
 To make a Tart of Strawberies. 
  
 [12r] 
  
 Take and strain them with the yolkes 
 of foure Egges, and a litle white bread 
 grated, then season it up with Suger, 
 and swete butter, and so bake it. 
 
six egges, and season it up with Suger 
 and sweete butter, and so bake it. 
  
 To make a stewe after the guyse of 
  
 [12v] 
  
 beyond the Sea. 
 Take a pottle of faire water, and as 
 much wine, and a brest of mutton chopt 
 in pieces, then set it on the fier, and scom 
 it cleane, and put thereto a dishe full of 
 sliced oynions, and a quantity of Cinna- 
 mom, ginger, cloves, and mace, with salt 
 and stewe them altogether, and then 
 serve them with soppes. 
  
 To make egges in mone shine. 
 Take a dishe of rose water, and a dishe 
 full of suger, and set them upon a cha-
fingdish, and let them boile, then take the 
 yolkes of 8. or 9. egges newlaid, and put 
 them therto, every one from other, and 
 so let them harden a little, and so after 
 this maner serve them forth, and cast a 
 little Cinnamon and suger. 
  
 To make an Appelmoise. 
 Take a dosyn apples, and wither roste 
 or boyle them, and drawe them tho- 
 rowe a Stayner, and the yolkes of 
 three or foure egges withall, and as ye 
 straine them, temper them with three 
 or foure sponefull of damaske water, 
  
 [13r] 
  
 if ye will, then take and season it with 
 suger and halfe a dish of sweete butter, & 
 boyle them uopn a chafingdish in a plater, &
cast biskets or cinnamon and Ginger, 
 upon them, and so serve them forth. 
  
 To fry tripes. 
 Take your tripes, and cut them in smal 
 pieces, and put them into a pan, and put 
 therto an oynion or two, and a dishe of 
 swete buter, and let them fry till they be 
 brown, and then take them out & set them 
 upon a chafingdish, and put therto a litle 
 veriuyce and ginger, and serve it. 
  
 To make a tart of Prunes. 
 Take Prunes and set them up on a cha- 
 fer with a litle red wine, and put therto 
 a manchet and let them boyle together 
 then draw them throw a strainer, with 
 the yolkes of .iiii. egges, and season it 
 with suger, and so bake it. 
 
and let it boyle with the Mutton, then 
 take twelve Egges, and the sayde two 
 ladels full of broth and veriuice, & strain 
  
 [14v] 
  
 them altogether, then season your broth 
 with salt, and a litle before you go to 
 diner, put al these to your Mutton, and 
 stere it well for quaylynge, and serve it 
 foorth with soppes. 
  
 An other broth with long wortes. 
 Take mutton and fayre water, and let 
 them boile upon the fire, and then take 
 lettuce or spinege, and put thereto, and 
 if ye list to boyle therewith two or three 
 chickens, and put thereto salt & veriuyce 
 after your discreation and serve them 
 forth, the flesh under, the herbes above.
or teales, Fesand, patriche, or suche o- 
 ther wild foules, and let them boyle allto- 
 gether, then season them with Salte, 
 and serve them forth. 
  
 To make Porraie. 
 Take a capon or a hen, and either bief 
 ir Mutton to make the brothe sweete 
 withall, and boyle them all together till 
 they be very tender, then take the capon 
 or Hen out of the pot & take out all his 
 bones, and bray him in a morter, with 
 ii. pounde of Almondes over blaunched, 
 then with the brothe of your Capon or 
 Hen straine them metely thick, then put 
 it in a little potte, and season it with a 
 little Suger, Sanders, Cloves, Mace, 
 and small raisins, so boile him and serve 
 him upon soppes. 
 
To stew bones or gristles of Biefe. 
 Take gristles of biefe, and stew them 
 as tender as ye can, sixe houres so that 
 there be no broth lefte that shall serve 
  
 [15v] 
  
 you as that tyme, than put a good bun- 
 del of rosemary in a fayrelinnen cloth 
 and a good quantitye of Mace in another 
 cloth, and boyle them altogether, then 
 wringe out the iuyce of the Rosemary 
 and mace, upon the flesh and season it 
 with salt, and so serve [him?]. 
  
 For to stewe Mutton. 
 Take a necke of Mutton and a brest to 
 make the broth Stronge, and then scum 
 it cleane, and when it hath boyled a 
 while, take part of the broth, and put it
