Take Tostes of Bread, Butter, Claret wine and slices of Orenges, and lay them upon the Tostes and Sinamon Sugar and Ginger. 
 To make Sops for chickins. 
 Firste take Butter and melt it upon a Chafingdishe with Coales, and lay in the Dish thinne Tostes of Bread, and make Sorrell sauce with Vergious and Gooseberries, seeth them with a little vergious and lay them upon. 
 To boyle a capon in Browes. 
 You must boile your Capon with fat meat, then take the best of the broth and put it in a pipkin, & put whole Mace to it, whole Pepper, some red Corance, half as much white wine as you have of broth, good store of Marowe and Dates, and scum them clean and keep your licour very cleere, and season it with Vergious and Sugar, and then lay your Capon upon browes finely cut, and so poure your broth upon it. 
 To boyle a Capon. 
 Take your Capon and boyle it tender, and take out a little of the broth and put it in a little pipkin with whole mace and a good deale of ginger, and quartered Dates, and boyle your corance and prunes in very faire water by themselves, for making of your broth black and thicken your broth with yolks of egges and wine strained togither or a little Vergious, and let your broth boile no more when you have thickened it, for it will quail.  Then cut sippits in a platter, and lay in your Capon, and laye your fruite upon it, so dooing serve it out. 
 To boyle a Capon with Orenges or Lemmons. 
 Take your Capon and boyle him tender and take a little of the broth when it is boyled and put it into a pipkin with Mace and Sugar a good deale, and pare three Orenges and pil them and put them in your pipkin, and boile them a little among your broth, and thicken it with wine and yolkes of egges, and Sugar a good deale, and salt but a little, and set your broth no more on the fire for quailing, and serve it without sippets. 
 To boyle a Cony with a Pudding in his Belly. 
 Take your Cony and fley him, & leave on the eares and wash it faire, and take grated Bread, sweete Suet minced fiine, corance and some fine hearbs, Peneriall; winter savery; percely, Spinage or beets, sweet margeram, and chop your hearbs fine, and season it with Cloves, Mace and Sugar, a little creame and salt and yolks of Egs, and Dates minst fine.  Then mingle all your stuf togither, and put it in your Rabets belly and sowe it up with a thred, for the broth take mutton broth when it is boyled a little, and put it in a pot wheras your Rabet may lye long waies in it, and let your broth boile or ever you put it in, then put in Gooceberies or els Grapes, corance and sweet Butter, Vergious, Salt, grated bread and Sugar a little, and when it is boyled, lay it in a dish with Sops.  And so serve it in. 
 To boile Chickins or Capons. 
 First boile them in faire water til they be tender.  Then take Bread and steep it in the broth of them, and with the yolks of foure or five Egges, & Vergious or white Wine straine it and therewith season your broth and your Capon in it.  Then take Butter, persly and other smal  herbs, and chop them into it.  And so serve them foorth upon sops of Bread. 
 To seeth chickins in Lettice. 
 Take a neck of Mutton with a marow bone, and so let it seethe, and scum it clean and let it boyle well togither, and when it is enough: then take out some of it and straine it, and put in your Chickins.  Then take a good many Letuce and wash them clean and put them in.  Then take a little white Bread and straine it and put it into the pot to thick it withal.  Then put a little whole mace to season it with Pepper and Vergious, and a little sugar, and cut sops and lay them on, and put on the marow and so serve them. 
 To boyle chickins with hearbs.
Take your Chickins and scalde them and trusse the wings on, & put their feete under the wings of your Chickins, and set them on in a little pot and scum them faire, when they have boyled: put in Spinage or Letuice a good deale, and 
  
 Rosemary, sweet butter, vergious, salt and a little Sugar and strained Bread, with a litle wine, and cut sippets, and serve it out. 
 So may you boyle Mutton, or Pigeons, or Conny. 
 To seeth Hennes and capons in Winter, in whitebroth. 
 Take a neck of mutton & a marow bone, and let them boile with the Hennes togither, then take Carret roots, and put them into the pot, and then straine a little bread to thick the pot withall and not too thicke, season it with Pepper & vergious, and then cover them close and let them boyle togither, then cut Sops and put the broth and the marrow above, and so serve them. 
 To stue capons. 
 Take the best of your mutton broth and put therto a little whole pepper, and a little whole Mace, Parcely, and time, and boile them.  Then put in halfe a dish of sweet Butter, Vergious, and a peece of Sugar.  Then take a good quantitie of Gooseberies, and boyle them by themselves in a little broth, and poure them upon your chickins, put into your broth a spoonfull of yest. 
 To stue Sparrowes. 
 Take Ale and set it on the fire, and when it seetheth scum it, and then put in your Sparrowes and small Raisins, Sugar and Sinamon, Ginger, and Dates, and let them boyle togither, and then take marrows or Butter, and a little vergious, and keepe it close.  And when it is enough, make Sops in Platters and serve them forth. 
 To stue Sparrowes. 
 Take good Ale a pottel, or after the quantities more or lesse by your discretion, and set it over the fier to boyle, and put in your Sparowes and scum the broth, then put therin Onions, Percely, Time, Rosemary chopped small, pepper and Saffron, with Cloves and Mace, a fewe.  And make sippets as you doo for Fish, and laye the Sparrowes upon with the said broth, and in the seething put in a peece of sweet Butter, and vergious if need be. 
 For to stue Larkes. 
 First take them and drawe them cleane, and cut off their feete, and then take a good deale of wine in a platter, and take a good deale of marow, and put it in the Wine and set them on a Chafing dish, and let them stew there a good while, then take a quantitie 
  
 of smal Raisins, and wash them clean and put them into the broth, and take a little sugar, and Sinamon, and a few crums of manchet bread, and put them into the Larkes, and let them stue altogither, than take and cut half a dosen Tostes, and lay them in a Platter, then put them in a dish with broth, and serve them out. 
 To stue Sparrowes or Larkes. 
 Take the best of Mutton broth, and put it in a Pipkin, and put to it a little whole Mace, whole Pepper, Claret wine, Marigolde leaves, Barberies, Rosewater Vergious, Sugar, and Marrowe: or els sweet Butter.  Perboile the Larkes before and then boyle them in the same broth and lay them upon Sops. 
 To boile a Duck. 
 Seeth the Duck with some good marow bones or Mutton, and take the best of the broth, and put therin a few Cloves, a good many sliced onions, and let them boile well together till the Onions be tender, and then season your broth with Vergious, and a little sugar & salt, and a little brused pepper, take up your Duck and lay it upon sops and give it two slices upon the brest, and stick it ful of cloves & pour the broth upon it.
To stue a wilde Mallard. 
 Take a wilde Mallard, with a peece of Mutton, and set him on the fire, and let him seeth, and scum him cleane, then straine a little bread and put it in, slice halfe a dozen of Onions, and take whole pepper and put it in, and season it well with Vergious, and cover it close and let it boyle till it be enough.  Then put it in a platter and serve it without Sops. 
 To boyle Stockdoves. 
 Seethe them with Beefe or Mutton, take the best of the broth and put it in a pipkin, and put thereunto Onions finelye minced, and a few Corance, and so boyle them till they be very tender, and season them with vergious, and a little sweet butter, and pour them upon your Stockdoves when they be laid upon the Sops. 
 To stue a hinflank of Beefe without fruit. 
 Boyle your flank of Beef very tender, till the broth be almost consumed, then put the broth into a pipkin, and put to it Onions, Caret roots shred small, being tender sodden before, and pepper groce beaten, vergious, and halfe a dish of sweet butter, and so lay it upon. 
 To stue a Neates foot. 
 First let your Neats foot be scalded and made cleane.  Then take Onions, slice them and boyle them well in faire water.  Then take halfe water and halfe Wine, so much as need to serve for the boiling of the Neats foot (which will be soone enough) and put it in a pipkin, put therin some Cloves, and a little whole pepper, and take the onions out of the water they were sodden in, and put them into the same pipkin, and the Neats foote with them till it be almost inough.  Then take a little vergious, half a dish of sweet butter and a little sugar, and let them boyle a little togither, and serve them in upon Sops. 
 An other to stue a Neats foot. 
 Boyle the Onions in Muscadell: and put therinto a fewe Corance, whole pepper and cloves: then put in your Neats foot and boyle it tender and season it with a good peece of butter, and when they be well boyled, lay them upon sops and cast about your dish sides a little pouder of Ginger. 
 To boyle a Leg of Mutton with Lemmons. 
 When your mutton is half boyled, take it up, cut it in small peeces, 
  
 put it into a Pipkin and cover it close, and put therto the best of the broth, as much as shall cover your Mutton, your Lemmons being sliced very thin and quartered and corance: put in pepper groce beaten, and so let them boile together, and when they be well boiled, seson it with a little vergious, Sugar, Pepper groce beaten, and a little sanders, so lay it in fine dishes upon sops, it wil make iv [4?] messe for the table. 
 To boile Mutton with Endive, Borage, or Lettice, or any kinde of hearbes that may serve therunto. 
 When your Mutton is well boyled, take the best of the broth, and put it in a Pipkin, and put therto an handfull of Endive, borage, or what herbs you list, and cast therto a few corance, and let them boyle well, and put therto a peece of upper crust of white bread, season it with pepper groce beaten, and a little Vergious, and a little sugar, & so poure it upon your meat. 
 To boile mutton for a sick body. 
 Put your mutton into a Pipkin, seeth it and scum it clean, and put therto a crust of Bread.  Fennell roots, Percely roots, Corance, great Raisins, the stones taken out, 
  
 and hearbes according as the patient is.  If they be colde, hot hearbs may be borne: If they be hot colde herbs be best, as Endive, Sinamon, violet leaves, and some Sorell: let them boyle togither.  Then put in Prunes, and a very little salt this is broth for a sick body.
boyle them altogither.  Then take the Neats tung and slice it and so lay it in your dish with sippets and serve it in. 
 A boyled Sallet. 
 Take Spinage and boyle it and chop it, and when it is chopt, poure it in a little Pipkin, with Corance, sweete Butter, Vinagre, and Sugar, boyle them altogither, and when they are boyled put it in a dishe, and lay sippets round about, and strew suger upon them and serve them out. 
 For Fish. 
 To seethe a Pike. 
 Scoure your Pike with bay Salte, and then open him on the back, faire washe him, and then cast a little white Salte upon him.  Set on faire water wel seasoned with Salte.  When this licoour seetheth, then put in your Pike and fair scum it, then take the best of the broth when it is sodden, and put it in a little Chafer or Pipkin, and put therto parcely and a little Time, Rosemary, whole Mace, good Yest, and half as much Vergious as you have licour, and boile them togither, and put in the Liver of the Pike, 
  
 and the kell, being clean scaled and washed, and let them boyle well, then season your broth with pepper groce beaten, with salt not too much, because your licour is Salte that your Pike is boyled in, put therein a good peece of sweete Butter, and season it with a little Sugar that it be neither tooo sharpen nor too sweet.  So take up your pike and laye it upon Sops the skinny side upward, and so lay your broth upon it. 
 A Pike sauce for a Pike, Bream, Perch, roch, Carp, Flounders, and all manner of Brooke fish. 
 Take a posie of Rosemary and Time, and binde them together, and put in also a quantity of Parcelye not bound, and put it into a Cauldron of water, salte, and Yest, and the hearbes, and let them boyle a prettie while, then put in the Fishe, and a good quantitie of Butter, and let them boyle a good while, and you shall have your Pyke Sauce.  For all these Fishes above written if they must be broyled: take sauce for them, Butter, Pepper and Vinagre, and boyle it upon a chafingdish, and then lay the broyled fish upon the dish, but for Eeles and fresh Salmon nothing 
  
 but pepper and Vinagre over-boyled, and also if you will frye them, you must take a good quantity of Percely, after the Fish is fryed, put in the percelye into the Frying pan, and let it frye in the butter, then take it up and put it on the fryed Fish, as fryed Plaice, Whiting, and such other fish, except Eeles, fresh Salmon and Cunger, which be never fried, but baked, broiled, roasted and sodden. 
 How to seeth a Carpe. 
 Cut the throat of your Carp, & save the blood in a saucer, and take your Carpe and scoure him with Salt, take out the gal and the Guts, and leave the Liver and the fat in the belly of the Carp, set on your licour, water and Salt to seeth him, and when your licour seethes, put in your carp or ever he be dead, and take good heede for springing out of the Pan, for it is ever good to seethe fish quick, for it maketh the fish to eat hard. 
 Take the best of the broth and a little red Wine, good store of Vergious, new yest, with the blood of the Carp strained, and so put it in a Pipkin with Corance, whole Pepper, and boyle them altogither, put therto half a dish of sweet butter, and a little time, and Barberies if you have them, 
  
 and when they be well boyled, season it not too sweet nor too sharpe, and then poure it upon your Carpe. 
 To seeth Roches, Flounders, or Eeles. 
 Make ye good broth with new yest, put therin vergious, salt, percely, a little Time, and not much rosemary and pepper, so set it upon the fire and boile it, and when it is well boyled put in the Roches, Flounders, Eeles and a little sweet butter. 
 To seeth a Gurnard.
Open your Gurnard in the back, and faire wash and seeth it in water & Salt, with the fishy side upward, and when it is well sod, take some of the best of the broth if you will, or els a little fair water, and put to it new yest, a little vergious, percely, rosemary, a little time, a peece of sweet butter, and whole Mace, and let it boyle in a pipkin by it self till it be well boyled, and then when you serve in your Gurnard, poure the same broth upon it. 
 To seeth a Dory or Mullet. 
 Make your broth light with yest, somewhat savery with salt, and put therin a little Rosemary, and when it seethes put in your fish and let it seeth very softly, take faire water and vergious a like much, and 
 put therto a little new Yest, corance, whole pepper and a little Mace, and Dates shred very fine, and boyle them wel togither, and when they be well boyled, take the best of your broth that your fish is sodden in, and put to it strawberyes, gooseberyes, or barberyes, sweet Butter, some Sugar, and so season up your broth, and poure upon your Dorry or Mullet. 
 To seeth Turbut or Cunger. 
 Set on water and salt, and season it wel, if the Turbut be great quarter him into foure quarters, if he be small, cut him but in halfe, if it be a Burt, seethe it whole after this sort.  When your licour doth seeth, put in your fish and let it seeth very softly till it be sodden enough, and when it is sodden, take it not up till the licour be colde.  Then take halfe white Wine, with Vinagre and the broth that it was sodden in, and lay the fish in it to souce, Cungar, Sturgion, and all Fish that is to be souced, in like manner saving you must seethe your Sturgion in water and Salte, and souce it with white Wine. 
 How to seeth Shrimps. 
 Take halfe water and halfe beere or Ale, and some salt good and savery, and set it 
  
 on the fire and faire scum it, and when it seetheth a full wallop, put in your Shrimpes faire washed, and seethe them with a quick fire, scum them very clean, and let them have but two walmes, then take them up with a scummer, and lay them upon a fair white cloth, and sprinkle a little white salt upon them. 
 Bake Meates. 
 For fine Pyes of Veale or Mutton. 
 Perboyle your meat and shredde it fine, and shred your Suet by it selfe.  When your Suet is fine shred put it to your Mutton or Veale and mince them togither, put therto halfe a dozen yolkes of Egges being hard sodden and fine minced, small Corance, dates fine minced, season it with cloves and mace, Sinamon and Ginger, a very little Pepper, a handfull of Carowaies, Sugar and Vergious, and some Salt, and so put it into your paste being Chewets or Trunk pyes. 
 For Pyes of Mutton or Beefe. 
 Shred your meat and Suet togither fine, season it with cloves, mace, Pepper, and 
  
 same Saffron, great Raisins, Corance and prunes, and so put it into your Pyes. 
 To bake a Neatstung. 
 Seeth your Neats tung very tender and slice it diamond slices, wash it with vergious, season it with Pepper and salt, sinamon and ginger, then lay it into your coffin with Corance, whole Mace, Onions being very small minced, with Marow or else very sweet butter, some Sugar & some dates being very small minced, and put therein some vergious. 
 To bake a Pigge.
Take your Pig and flea it, and draw out all that clean which is in his bellye, and wash him clean, and perboyle him, season it with Cloves, mace, nutmegs, pepper & salt, and so lay him in the paste with good store of Butter, then set it in the Oven till it be baked inough. 
 To bake a gammon of Bacon. 
 Take your Bacon and boyle it, and stuffe it with Parcely and Sage, and yolks of hard Egges, and when it is boyled, stuffe it and let it boyle againe, season it with Pepper, cloves and mace, whole cloves stick fast in, so then lay it in your paste with salt butter. 
 To bake Chickins. 
 Season them with cloves, mace, sinamon ginger, and some pepper, so put them into your coffin, and put therto corance dates Prunes, and sweet Butter, or els Marow, and when they be halfe baked, put in some sirup of vergious, and some sugar, shake them togither and set them into the oven again. 
 Bake Sparowes, Larkes, or any kinde of small birds, calves feet or sheepes tunges after the same manner. 
 To make a Chickin Pye. 
 Scalde the Chickins, draw them, and pull out the brest bones, then season them with cloves and mace, Pepper and Salte, and if you have them grapes, or gooseberies: when you have so doon, make paste of fine flower, and put in your Chickins, and set them in the Oven, then boyle foure Egs hard, then take the yolks and strain them with vergious, and put Sugar thereto and put it into your chicken pye when it is half baked, and when it is ready to be served in, annoint it over with butter, Sugar & rosewater, then put it into the oven til you serve them in. 
 To bake Chickins without fruit. 
 Season your Chickins with cloves, mace and pepper, lay them into your paste with 
  
 sweet butter, gooseberies, sugar and whole mace.  And when they be well baked, put therto vergious, yolkes of egges strained, shake them togither and set them into the Oven againe. 
 To bake Pigeons. 
 Season them with Pepper, salte, and vergious, and lay them in your paste, and put to them sweet Butter, gooseberies, and two or three spoonfull of vergious. 
 To bake Crane or Bustard. 
 First take him and perboyle him a little, and then take sweet Lard and Lard him withall, then put it into the Coffin, and take Pepper and salt, and season them togither and cast it upon it, and take butter, and put it into the Coffin, and so let it bake the space of foure houres, and serve them forth. 
 To bake Geece or Capons. 
 Season them with pepper and Salte, put Butter therto, and prick your goose with some Cloves. 
 To bake Turky Fowles. 
 Cleve your Turkye foule on the back, and bruse al the bones.  Season it with Pepper groce beaten and salt, and put into it good store of Butter, he must have five houres baking.
To bake Fesant or Partriges. 
 Bake your Fesant or Partridge as you doo your capon with Pepper and Salt, and draw them with Lard if you wil, and put to them sweet Butter. 
 How to bake Sparrowes or other small birds. 
 Make paste of fine floure, egges, butter and faire water, therof make Coffins then season your birds with sugar and ginger, then take good cheese clene scraped and small minced with a little Butter, and put them into your coffins, and put therto your birds, and close it till it be enough. 
 To bake Capons or Chickins. 
 Take paste as is aforesaid, and season the Capon with ginger, salt and Vergious, then take Lard and mince it meetlye small, and put that first into the Coffin, then put your Capon unto it with the brest downward, so cover it and bake it, when it is almost enough, put into it the yolkes of three or foure Egges strained through a strainer with a little vergious, and so let it stand til it be inough. 
 To bake wilde Ducks. 
 When they be fair dressed and perboiled, season them with Pepper and Salt, a few whole cloves amongst them, and 
  
 Onions small minced, and sweet butter, vergious and a little sugar. 
 For to bake Mallards. 
 First trusse them and perboyle them, and put them into the coffin, then take pepper and Salt and season them and foure or five onions peeled and sliced, and put them altogither with a good peece of sweet butter unto the Mallards, and so let them bake two houres and when they be baked, put in half a goblet of Vergious for every Mallard, and so serve them. 
 How to bake pyes of Calves feet. 
 Take Calves feet and wash them, boyle and blanch the haire of them, season them with cloves and mace, and a little pepper, vergious and sugar, dates, prunes, corance, and sweet butter, then make your paste of fine flower with yolkes of Egges, and raise the Coffin square, when it if halfe baked, then take it out and put in Vergious and sugar with the yolks of hard Egs strained. 
 How to bake Conies, Rabets, or Hares, with fruit or without fruit. 
 Season them with Pepper and Salte, Cloves and mace, and so laye them into your paste with Corance or Prunes, great 
  
 Raisins and if you will: butter and a little vergious. 
 To bake small meats. 
 Take Egges and seethe them hard, then take the yolkes out of them and braye them in the morter, and temper them with Creme, and then straine them, and put to them Pepper, Saffron, Cloves, Maced, small raisins, Almonds blanched and small shred and grated bread.
Take Peares also sodden in Ale, and bray and straine them with the same Licour, and put therto Bastard and Honny, and put it into a pan and stir it on the fire til it be wel sodden, then make little coffins and set them in the Oven til they be hard, and then take them out againe, and put the foresaid licour into them and so serve them forth. 
 To make small bake meats of Sirup and Peares. 
 Take Peares and seethe them in Ale, then bray them and straine them and put Sanders to them and Ale, with the spices aforesaide, and the Coffins in likewise ordered, and so put in the sirup. 
 How to bake Venison. 
 When it is perboiled, season it with Salt and Pepper somewhat groce 
 beaten, and a little Ginger, and good store of sweet Butter, and when the Venison is tender baked put to it half a dozen spoonfull of Claret wine and shake it well togither. 
 To bake Venison to eat hot. 
 Cut the Venison in faire peeces, in quantitie as you will have your pasties, and perboyle it, that doon stick the grain side ful of Cloves, and Lard the lean side with good lard, and season it with pepper, salt, and all manner of spices; then put the grained side of the venison downwards into the coffin of brown paste, and so close it and bake it, and when it is open turn the grain side upward. 
 To bake Venison to eat colde. 
 Take Venison and cut it as the graine goeth, and cut it in quantity as ye wil have your Pasties, and perboile it in faire water, then take Lard and cut it in length of your flesh, and therwith lard it as thicke as you can, so that one peece of the Larde touch not an other.  Then take all manner of spices, salt, and Vinagre, that doon, put it into brown paste and bake it. 
 To bake Venison of red Deere. 
 Laye it in water, and then wash it very clean out of the water, if it be clean draw it with Larde, then take meale and sift it, 
  
 and take faire licour and let it boile, & make your paste with that, then take Beefe suet, mince it and beate it, drive out your paste very thick, close it and let it bake six houres when it is half baked, take Cloves & mace and Vinagre, and so boile them togither, put them into your redde Deere, at a little hole made for that purpose.  And when you have so doon, stop the hole with some of the same dough, and then set it in againe untill it be inough. 
 To bake Venison of Fallow Deere. 
 Lay it in water and wash it very clean, then perboile it, if it be of the side, raise the skin of it: if it be of the haunch, presse it: season it with pepper and salt, take good store of Dre Suet, and mince it very fine, when you have minced it, beat it, then take Flower, butter and Egges and make your paste stiffe, then drive it out, and then put in your suet and Venison and close it, then take the yolk of an egge and a little beere, and wet it over, and let it bake foure houres, and then serve it in. 
 To bake the Umbles of a Deere. 
 Mince them very small with Suet, and season them with Pepper, a little 
  
 Ginger, a little Sinamon and Corance, and out into your paste, and when your pye is baked, put to it two spoonfuls of Claret wine, and shake it well togither.
To bake a Pig like a Fawne. 
 Fley him when he is in the haire, season it with pepper and salt, Cloves and mace, take Claret wine, Vergious, Rosewater, Sinamon, Ginger and Sugar, boyle them togither, laye your Pig flat like a Fawne or a Kidde, and put your sirup unto it and sweet butter, and so bake it leisurely. 
 To make Florentines. 
 Take Vele and some of the Kidney of the Loyne, or colde Veale roasted, colde capon or Phesant, which of them you wil, and mince it very small with sweet suet, put unto it two or three yolks of Egs, being hard sod, Corance and dates small shred, season it with a little sinamon and ginger, a very little cloves and mace, with a little Salte and sugar, a little Time being finely shred.  Make your paste fine with butter & yolkes of Egs and Sugar, role it very thin and so lay it in a platter with butter underneath: and so cut your cover and lay it upon it. 
 A Florentine of Flesh. 
  
 Take the Kidneies of Veale and chop them very small with Corance, dates, sinamon and Ginger, Sugar, salt, and the yolks of three Egs, and mingle altogither, and make a fine paste with yolks of egges, and butter, and let there be Butter in your dishe bottome, then drive them to small Cakes, and put one in the dish bottom, and lay your meat in, then lay your other upon your meat, and close them togither, and cut the cover and it, when it is baked then strew Sugar and serve it out. 
 A Florentine of Fish. 
 Take apples, grated bread, Corance, and chop your apples verye fine, and mingle your stuffe with yolkes of Egs, and drive out your paste as you do the other, put butter in your dish bottom and so serve it out. 
 To make Florentines with Eeles for Fish dayes. 
 Take great Eeles, fleye them and perboyle them a little, then take the fishe from the bones, and mince it small with some Wardens amongst it to make it to mince small, and season it with cloves and mace, pepper, Corance and Dates, and when you lay it into your paste, take a little fine Sugar and lay it upon before you cover it, and 
  
 when it is halfe baked or altogither, laye a peece of sweet Butter upon cover, and a little rosewater and sugar.  After the same manner, minced pyes of Eeles. 
 To make a Florentine. 
 Take the Kidney of Veale and boyle it a little, choppe it very fine.  Then take Cloves, Mace and Pepper, and season it withall, then take an ounce of Biskets and as much of Carowayes, and put into your stuffe, make your paste of fine floure, butter Egges and Sugar and drive your paste very thin, and lay a sheet of paste in a dish and under it lay a little butter, and spread it abroad with your thumb, then lay your meat aloft on it in the dishe, then make the other sheet and cut it and lay it upon your meat.  Then close it and cut it round about like a Starre, and set it in the Oven and let it abide a quarter of an houre, then take it out and wet it over with Butter, then cast sugar wet with rosewater upon it, then set it into the Oven again a little while, then take it out and serve it in. 
 How to make Chuets. 
 Take Veale and perboyle it and chop it very fine, take beefe Suet and mince it fine, then take Prunes, Dates and 
  
 Corance, wash them very clean and put them into your meat, then take Cloves, Mace, and pepper to season your meat withal and a little quantity of salt, vergious and Sugar, two ounces of biskets, and as many of Carowaies, this is the seasoning of your meat, then take fine flowre, yolkes of Egs, and butter, a little quantitye of rosewater and sugar, then make little coffins for your Chewets and let them bake a quarter of an houre, then wet them over with butter, then strewe on Sugar and wet the Sugar with a little Rosewater, and set them into the Oven again, then take and serve five in a dish. 
 How to bake Vaunts.
Take the kidney of Veale and perboile it till it be tender, then take & chop it small with the yolkes of three or foure Egs, then season it with Dates small cut, small raisins, Ginger, Sugar, Sinamon, Saffron and a little Salte, and for the paste to laye it in, Take a dozen of Egs both the white and the yolkes, and beate them well togither, then take Butter and put it into a frying pan, and fry them as thin as a pancake, then lay your stuffe therin, and so frye them togither in a pan, then cast sugar and 
  
 Ginger upon it, and so serve it forth. 
 How to make Pescods. 
 First make short paste with yolks of egs, butter and a little sugar.  Then take for the stuffe, Marow, small raisins, dates, Sinamon, Sugar and Ginger, and then frye them with sweet butter, and when you serve them, cast on Sugar and Sinamon. 
 How to bake Eeles whole. 
 When they be fleyed & clean washed, season them with vergious, pepper, and salt, Cloves and mace, and put to them corance, great Raisins and Prunes, sweete butter and Vergious. 
 To bake Lamprons. 
 Faire scoure them or fleye them, and season them with pepper and Salt, and put to them some onions, vergious, butter and Oisters. 
 How to bake Lamprons fine. 
 Put to them small Raisins and Onyons minced very fine, and dates minced fine, a little whole Mace, some Prunes, if you will butter and vergious. 
 How to bake a Lamprey. 
 When you have fleied and washed it clean, season it with Pepper, and salt, and make a light Gallandine and 
  
 put to it good store of butter, and after this sort you must make your gallandine.  Take white bread tostes and lay them in steep in Claret wine, or else in vergious, & so strain them with vinagre, and make it somewhat thin, and put sugar, Sinamon and ginger, and boyle it on a Chafing dish of coles, this Galandine being not too thicke, put it into your pye of Lampreye, and after this sort shall you bake Porpos or Puffins. 
 To bake Carp, Bream, Mullet, Pike, Trout, Roche or any other kinde of Fish. 
 Season them with Cloves and Mace, and pepper, and bake them with smal raisins, sweete butter and Vergious, great raisins, and some prunes. 
 How to bake a Holybut head. 
 First water it till it be fresh then cut it in small peeces like Culpines of an Eele, and season it with pepper & Saffron, cloves and mace, small raisins & great, and meddle al these wel togither, and also put therto a good messe of vergious, and so bake the same Fish. 
 How to bake Cunger.
Season it with pepper and salt and make your pies but even meet for one gubbin, and put to it sweet butter, & let it not drye. 
 To bake a Stockfish. 
 Season your Stockfish with pepper & salt and lay it into the paste, and put good store of butter to it, and shred onions small, and percely, and cast it upon the stockfish, & put a little vergious unto it, and bake it. 
 How to bake watered Herrings. 
 Let your Herrings be wel watered, and season them with Pepper and a little Cloves and mace, and put unto them minced Onions, great raisins and small, a little sweet butter, and a little sugar, and so bake them. 
 How to bake Custards. 
 Take to every pinte of Cream five Egs, and put in no whites, and straine your Cream and Egges together, season it with Cloves & mace and sugar, and when your paste is well hardened in the Oven, having small raisins & dates put in your stuffe, and let it not bake too much, for much baking will make your Custard to quaile, or els to fail.  Doucets after the same sort. 
 How to bake Wardens. 
 Core your wardens and pare them, and perboyle them and laye them in your paste, and put in every warden where you take out the Core a Clove or twain, put to 
  
 them Sugar, Ginger, Sinamon, more sinamon then ginger, make your crust very fine and somewhat thick, and bake them leisurely. 
 How to bake Quinces. 
 Take half a pound of Sugar, and a dozen of Quinces and pare them, take half an ounce of Sinamon and Ginger, take fine flower, sweet butter, and Egges, and make your paste, then put in all your stuffe and close it up. 
 Another to bake Quinces. 
 Core your Quinces and fair pare them, perboyle them in seething licour, Wine or water, or halfe wine and half water and season them with Sinamon and sugar, and put halfe a dozen Cloves into your Pyes amongst them, and halfe a dozen spoonful of rosewater, put in good of sugar.  If you will bake them a slighter waye, you maye put in Muscadell to spare Sugar. 
 How to bake Orenges. 
 Faire peele your Orenges, and pick away all the white that is under the peele, and so lay them in fine paste, and put into them Sugar, very little Sinamon or none at all, but a little Ginger and bake them very leisurely. 
 Roast Meates. 
 To roast Venison. 
 First perboile it, and then make it tender cast it into cold water, then Lard it and roste it, and for sauce take broth, Vinagre, Pepper, Cloves and mace, with a little salt and boile these togither and serve it upon your Venison.
Take Prunes and wash them, then boile them with faire water, cut in halfe a penny loaf of white bread, and take them out and straine them with Claret wine, season it with sinamon, Ginger and Sugar, and a little Rosewater, make the paste as fine as you can, and dry it, and fill it, and let it drie in the oven, take it out and cast on it Biskets and Carawaies. 
 Tarts of Damsons without a cover. 
 Scalde your Damsons with rosewater in a Platter, and then strain them and season them with sugar, sinamon, and ginger, and so make a Tart without a Cover. 
 Tartes of Damsons with a cover. 
 Lay in your Damson whole, and so season them with sugar, Sinamon & Ginger, and so lay on a cover. 
 Tartes of Cherries. 
 Pluck off your stalks and lay your Cherries into your paste and season them with sugar, sinamon and ginger, and lay a cover upon them. 
 Tartes of Gooseberies. 
  
 Lay your Gooseberies in your crust, and put to them sinamon and Ginger, Sugar and a few small raisins put among them, and cover them with a Cover. 
 Tartes of Apples with covers. 
 Mince your Apples very small, season them with Sugar, sinamon & ginger, and laye thereon a faire cover, and dresse your cover when it is halfe baked with Rosewater and Sugar. 
 Tartes of Apples without covers. 
 Boyle your Apples very tender in a little wine, or for lack of Wine Ale, and then strain them with Sugar, sinamon and ginger.  Make a tart of it without a cover. 
 Tartes of Quinces without covers. 
 Straine your Quinces with some wine, when they be boiled tender, and an apple with them, or two or three Wardens, straine them and season them with Sugar, Sinamon and Ginger, and so make tarte without a cover. 
 Tarte of Quinces with covers. 
 When your Quinces be very tender and colde, mince with two or three Warden amongst them and season them with sugar, sinamon and ginger, and so the paste being very fine, lay a cover upon them. 
 How to make Tartes of Spinage. 
 Boyle your Spinage very tender, and three or foure apples with it, and when it is very tender, straine it through a faire cloth, and then season it with the yolk of an egge, Sugar, Sinamon, and Ginger.
Tartes of Borage after the same fashion. 
 Tartes of Eglentine berries. 
 Take the berries and picke out al the white within them, and boyle them very tender in faire water, and when they be almost sod dry, put therin wine, and three or foure Apples, and straine them, season them with sugar, sinamon and ginger, so make a Tart without a cover. 
 Tarte of Strawberies. 
 Seson your Strawberyes with sugar, a very little Sinamon, a little ginger, and so cover them with a cover, and you must lay upon the cover a morsell of sweet Butter, Rosewater and Sugar, you may Ice the cover if you will, you must make your Ice with the white of an egge beaten, and Rosewater and Sugar. 
 How to make a Tart of Brier hips. 
 Take Hippes and washe them, and boyle them in Claret wine, and straine them through a strainer, season them with Sinamon, 
  
 ginger and Sugar, and make your paste, and fill it with the same stuffe. 
 To make a Tart of Cream. 
 Take Creame and Egs and stir them, togither, and put them into a strainer till the whay be come out, then strain it that it may be thick, season it with Ginger, Sugar, and a little Saffron, and then make your paste with flower, and dry your paste in the Oven, and then fill it, and set it into the Oven to dry, and then take it out, and cast Sugar on it, and so serve it forth. 
 How to make a good Marchpaine. 
 First take a pound of long smal almonds and blanch them in cold water, and dry them as drye as you can, then grinde them small, and put no licour to them but as you must needs to keepe them from oyling, and that licour that you put in must be rosewater, in manner as you shall think good, but wet your Pestel therin, when ye have beaten them fine, take halfe a pound of Sugar and more, and see that it be beaten small in pouder, it must be fine sugar, then put it to your Almonds and beate them altogither, when they be beaten, take your wafers and cut them compasse round, and of the bignes you will have your Marchpaine, and then 
  
 as soone as you can after the tempering of your stuffe, let it be put in your paste, and strike it abroad with a flat stick as even as you can, and pinch the very stuffe as it were an edge set upon, and then put a paper under it, and set it upon a faire boord, and lay lattin Basin over it the bottome upwarde, and then lay burning coles upon the bottom of the basin.  To see how it baketh, if it happen to bren too fast in some place, folde papers as broad as the place is & lay it upon that place, and thus with attending ye shal bake it a little more then a quarter of an houre, and when it is wel baked, put on your gold and biskets, and stick in Comfits, and so you shall make a good Marchpaine.  Or ever that you bake it you must cast on it fine Sugar and Rosewater that will make it look like Ice. 
 To make pottage of Cherries. 
 Fry white bread in butter til it be brown and so put it into a dish, then take Cherries and take out the stones and frye them where you fried the bread then put thereto Sugar, Ginger, and Sinamon, for lacke of broth, take White or Claret Wine, boyle these togither, and that doon, serve them upon your Tostes. 
 To poche Egges in broth. 
 Take faire licour and as much vergious, and new Yest, and put therin Corance, whole mace, sweet butter and sugar a good handfull of white Beets, and so boile them very tender, and so poche your Egs in faire water seething, and laye them upon sops, and poure the broth and hearbs upon. 
 To boyle yong Peason or Beanes.