Herbs and Spices is this; That there be so much as to drown the luscious 
 sweetness of the Honey; but not so much as to taste of herbs or spice, when 
 you drink the Meathe. But that the sweetnes of the honey may kill their 
 taste: And so the Meathe have a pleasant taste, but not of herbs, nor 
 spice, nor honey. And therefore you put more or less according to the time 
 you will drink it in. For a great deal will be mellowed away in a year, 
 that would be ungratefully strong in three months. And the honey that will 
 make it keep a year or two, will require a triple proportion of spice and 
 herbs. He commends Parsley roots to be in greatest quantity, boiled whole, 
 if young; but quarterred and pithed, if great and old. 
  
  
 MY OWN CONSIDERATIONS FOR MAKING OF MEATHE 
  
 Boil what quantity of Spring-water you please, three or four walms, and 
 then let it set the twenty four hours, and pour the clear from the 
 settling. Take sixteen Gallons of the clear, and boil in it ten handfuls of 
 Eglantine-leaves, five of Liverwort, five of Scabious, four of Baulm, four 
 of Rosemary; two of Bay-leaves; one of Thyme, and one of Sweet-marjoram, 
 and five Eringo-roots splitted. When the water hath drawn out the vertue of
into the vessel, wherein you mean to keep it: and when it comes near the 
 bottom, let it be taken carefully from the sediment, with a thin Dish, so 
 as nothing be put into the vessel, but what is clear. 4. Stop it very 
 close (when it is set in the place, where it must remain) cover it with a 
 cloth, upon which some handfuls of Bay-salt and Salpeter is laid, and over 
 that lay clay, and a Turf. 5. Put into it, when you stop it, some 
 New-laid-eggs in number proportionable to the bigness of the vessel, 
 Shell  '  s unbroken. Six Eggs to about sixteen Gallons. The whole Egg-shell 
 and all will be entirely consumed. 
  
  
 METHEGLIN FOR TASTE AND COLOUR 
  
 Must be boiled as the other, if you intend to keep it above half a year; 
 but less according to the time, wherein you mean to use it. You must put in 
 no Herbs, to avoid bitterness and discolouring; and the proportion of water 
 and honey more or less, as you would drink it sooner or later; (as a Gallon 
 of honey to 4, 5, or 6 of water.) If to be weak, and to be soon drunk, you 
 must when it is tunned, put in a Tost of bread (hard tosted) upon which 
 half a score drops of Spirit of yest or barm is dropped; for want of it,
spread it with purest barm beaten with a few drops of Oyl of Cinnamon. If 
 you intend to give it the taste of Raspes, then adde more barm, to make it 
 work well, and during that time of working, put in your Raspes (or their 
 Syrup) but the fruit gives a delicate Colour, and Syrup a duller Tincture. 
 Drink not that made after the first manner, till six moneths, and it will 
 endure drawing better then wine; but Bottleled, it is more spirited then 
 any drink. 
  
 The Spirit of Barm is made by putting store of water to the barm; then 
 distill the Spirit, as you do other Spirits; At last an oyl will come, 
 which is not for this use. 
  
 Sir Thomas Gower maketh his ordinary drink thus: Make very small well 
 Brewed Ale. To eight Gallons of this put one Gallon of honey; when it is 
 well dissolved and clarified, tun up the Liquor, making it work in due 
 manner with barm. When it hath done working, stop it up close, and in three 
 months it will be fit to drink. 
  
 He makes Metheglin thus. Make a good Decoct of Eglantine-leaves, Cowslip 
 flowers, a little Sweet-marjoram, and some Rosemary and Bay-leaves, Betony,
Liquor, after all the scum is gone; and the other half He putteth into a 
 bag, and hangeth in the bung, when it is tunned. The Ginger must be very 
 little, not so much as to make the Liquor taste strongly of it, but to 
 quicken it. I should like to adde a little proportion of Rosemary, and a 
 greater of Sweet-bryar leaves, in the boiling. As also, to put into the 
 barrel a tost of white bread with mustard, to make it work. He puts nothing 
 to it; but his own strength in time makes it work of it self. It is good to 
 drink after a year. 
  
  
 A RECEIPT FOR WHITE METHEGLIN 
  
 Take to every quart of honey, 4, 5, or 6, quarts of water; boil it on a 
 good quick fire as long as any scum riseth; as it boils, put about half a 
 pint of water at a time very often, and scum it very well as it riseth; and 
 be sure to keep it up to the same height and quantity as at the first: Put 
 into it a little Rosemary, according to the quantity that you make, and 
 boil it half a quarter of an hour; scum it very well. You may put a little 
 Ginger into it, onely to give it a taste thereof, and let it have a little 
 walm of heat after it. Then take and put it into a Woodden vessel, (which
must be well scalded, least it taste of any thing) let it stand all night, 
 and the next morning strain it through a sieve of hair. 
  
 Then if you please, you may boil up your grounds that are in the bottome of 
 the vessel with three or four quarts of water; and when it is cold, strain 
 it, to the rest, and put to it a little good light barm. That which you 
 make in the winter, you must let it stand three days and three nights 
 covered up, before you bottle it up; and two nights in summer, and then 
 bottle it up. But be sure, you scum off the barm before the bottling up. 
  
 Your Vessel, which you intend to boil your Meath in, must stand in 
 scalding water, whilst you boil your Meath; it will drink up the less of 
 your Meath. Four spoonfuls of good new Ale-barm will serve for five quarts 
 of honey. As you desire your Metheglin in strength, so take at the first 
 either of the quantities of water. Five quarts is reasonable. 
  
  
 HYDROMEL AS I MADE IT WEAK FOR THE QUEEN MOTHER 
  
 Take 18 quarts of spring-water, and one quart of honey; when the water is
fine Wheat-flower upon the boyling Liquor. 
  
 This will draw all the dregs to it, and swim at the top, so that you may 
 skim all off together. And this she holdeth the best way of clarifying the 
 Liquor, and making it look pale. Then pour it into vessels as above to 
 cool. Let it stand three days; then Tun it up into a Sack cask without yest 
 or Spice, and keep it stopped till it work. Then let it be open, till it 
 have done working, filling it up still with other honey-drink. Then stop it 
 up close for a year or two. You may at first stop it so, that the strong 
 working may throw out the stopple, and yet keep it close, till it work 
 strongly. She saith, that such a small proportion of wormwood giveth it a 
 fine quick tast, and a pale colour with an eye of green. The wormwood must 
 not be so much, as to discern any the least bitterness in the taste; but 
 that the composition of it with the honey may give a quickness. The 
 Rosemary and Sage must be a great deal less then the Wormwood. Sometimes 
 she stoppeth it up close as soon as she hath Tunned it, and lets it remain 
 so for three moneths. Then pierce it and draw it into bottles, which stop 
 well, and tie down the stoppels. This will keep so a long time. She useth 
 this way most. It makes the Mead drink exceeding quick and pleasant. When 
 you pierce the Cask, it will flie out with exceeding force, and be ready to
Sweet-Majoram; half so many tops of Bays. Boil these very well together, 
 and when it is cold, bottle it up. It will be ten days before it be ready 
 to drink. 
  
  
 ANOTHER WAY OF MAKING MEATH 
  
 Boil Sweet Bryar, Sweet Marjoram, Cloves and Mace in Spring-water, till the 
 water taste of them. To four Gallons of water put one Gallon of honey, and 
 boil it a little to skim and clarifie it. When you are ready to take it 
 from the fire, put in a little Limon-peel, and pour it into a Woodden 
 vessel, and let it stand till it is almost cold. Then put in some Ale-yest, 
 and stir it altogether. So let it stand till next day. Then put a few 
 stoned Raisins of the Sun into every bottle, and pour the Meath upon them. 
 Stop the bottles close, and in a week the Meath will be ready to drink. 
  
  
 SIR BAYNAM THROCKMORTON  '  S MEATHE. 
  
 Take four quarts of Honey, good measure; put to it four Gallons of water,
let it stand all night, but stir it well, when you put it together. The 
 next day boil it, and put to it Nutmegs, Cloves, Mace and Ginger, of each 
 half an ounce. Let these boil with the honey and water till it will bear an 
 Egge at the top without sinking; and then it is enough, if you see the Egge 
 the breadth of a sixpence. The next day put it in your vessel, and put 
 thereto two or three spoonfuls of barm; and when it hath done working, you 
 may (if you like it) put in a little Ambergreece in a clout with a stone to 
 it to make it sink. This should be kept a whole year before it be drunk; it 
 will drink much the better, free from any tast of the honey, and then it 
 will look as clear as Sack. Make it not till Michaelmas, and set it in a 
 cool place. You may drink it a quarter old, but it will not taste so 
 pleasant then, as when it is old. 
  
  
 TO MAKE WHITE METHEGLIN 
  
 Take a Gallon of Honey; put to it four Gallons of water; stir them well 
 together, and boil them in a Kettle, till a Gallon be wasted with boiling 
 and scumming. Then put it into a vessel to cool. When it is almost as cold 
 as Ale-wort, then clear it out into another vessel: Then put Barm upon it,
as you do to your Ale, and so let it work. And then Tun it up into a 
 vessel, and put into it a bag with Ginger, Cloves, and Cinamon bruised a 
 little, and so hang the bag in the vessel, and stop it up very close; and 
 when it hath stood a month or six weeks, bottle it up and so drink it. You 
 may put in a little Limmon-peel into some of your Metheglin, for those that 
 like that taste; which most persons do very much. 
  
  
 A RECEIPT FOR MAKING OF MEATH 
  
 Mistress Hebden telleth me, that the way of making Honey-drink in Russia, 
 is thus; Take for example, 100 Gallons of Spring water, boil it a little; 
 then let it stand 24 hours to cool, and much sediment will fall to the 
 bottom; from which pour the clear, and warm it, and put 20 or 25 Gallons of 
 pure honey to it, and lade it a long time with a great woodden battle-dore, 
 till it be well dissolved. The next day boil it gently, till you have 
 skimed off all the scum that will rise, and that it beareth an Egge boyant. 
 And in this Liquor you must put, in the due time, a little quantity of 
 Hops, about two handfuls, which must boil sufficiently in the Liquor. Put 
 this into the cooling fat to cool two or three days. When it is about
milk-warm, take white-bread and cut it into tosts, upon which, (when they 
 are hot) spread moderately thick some fresh sweet Ale-yest; and cover the 
 superficies of the Liquor with such tosts; Then cover the Tub or Fat with a 
 double course sheet, and a blancket or two, which tye fast about it. This 
 will make your Liquor work up highly. When you find it is near it  '  s height 
 of working, and that the Liquor is risen to the top of the Tub (of which it 
 wanted 8 or 10 Inches at first,) Skim off the tosts and yest, and Tun it up 
 in a hogshead: which stop close; but after 24 hours draw it into another 
 barrel: for it will leave a great deal of sediment. It will work again in 
 this second barrel. After other 24 hours draw it into another barrel, and 
 then it will be clear and pale like White-wine. Stop it up close, hanging a 
 bag of bruised spice in the bung; and after five or six months, it will be 
 fit to drink. If you would have your Meath taste of Raspes, or Cherries 
 (Morello, sharp Cherries, are the best) prepare the water first with them; 
 by putting five or six Gallons of either of these fruits, or more, into 
 this proportion of water; in which bruise them to have all their juyce: but 
 strain the Liquor from the Grains or Seeds, or Stones. And then proceed 
 with this tincted water, as is said above. You may make your Liquor as 
 strong, as you like, of the fruit. Cardamon-seeds mingled with the 
 suspended spices, adde much to the pleasantness of the drink. Limon-peel,
it in a Rundlet by it self.) Then take some very strong firm Paper, and wet 
 it on one side with some of the barm that works out, and lay that side over 
 the bung to cover it close. The barm will make it stick fast to the 
 hogshead. This covering will serve for a moneth or two. Then stop it close 
 with strong Cork fitted to the hole, with a linnen about it, to press it 
 fast in: But let a little vent with a peg in it be made in hogshead, in 
 some fit place above. This may be fit to broach in five or six moneths; but 
 three weeks or a moneth before you do so, put into each hogshead half an 
 ounce of Cinnamon; and two ounces of Cloves beaten into most subtile 
 powder. (Sometimes he leaves out the Cloves) which will give it a most 
 pleasant flavor; and they (as the Ginger did) sink down to the bottome and 
 never trouble the Liquor. If they be put in long before (much more if they 
 be boiled) they loose all their taste and Spirits entirely. This will last 
 very well half a year drawing. But if you stay broaching it a year, and 
 then draw it into bottles, it will keep admirable good three or four years, 
 growing to be much better, then when broached at six months end. It will be 
 purer, if you first boil the water by it self, then let it settle 24 hours; 
 and pour the clear from the earthy sediment, which will be great, and 
 dissolve your honey in that. You may Aromatise it with Ambergreece or Musk, 
 or both (if you like them) by dissolving a very few Pastils in a Runlet of
the Barrel as long as it will; then stop it up close for a few days more, 
 that so it may clear it self well, and separate and precipitate the dregs. 
 Then draw the clear into bottles. This will make it less windy, but also a 
 little less quick, though more wholesome. You may also boil a little 
 handful of tops of Rosemary in the Liquor, which giveth it a fine taste: 
 but all other herbs, and particularly Sweet-marjoram and Thyme, give it a 
 Physical taste. A little Limon-peel giveth it a very fine taste. If you Tun 
 it in a barrel, to work there, you may hang the Ginger and Limon-peel in it 
 in a bag, till you bottle it, or till it have done working. Then you may 
 put two or three stoned and sliced Raisins, and a lump of fine Sugar into 
 every bottle to make it quick. 
  
  
 TO MAKE METHEGLIN 
  
 Take five Gallons of water, and one Gallon of good White-honey; set it on 
 the fire together, and boil it very well, and skim it very clean; Then take 
 it off the fire, and set it by. Take six ounces of good Ginger, and two 
 ounces of Cinamon, one Ounce of Nutmegs; bruise all these grosly, and put 
 them into your hot Liquor, and cover it close, and so let it stand, till it
Oat-meal. And thus you may have a finer Cream then with hasty boiling. 
  
  
 AN EXCELLENT AND WHOLESOME WATER-GRUEL WITH WOOD-SORREL AND CURRANTS 
  
 Into a Possnet of two quarts of water, besides the due proportion of beaten 
 Oat-meal, put two handfuls of Wood-sorrel a little-chopped and bruised, and 
 a good quantity of picked and washed currants, tyed loosly in a thin stuff 
 bag (as a bolter cloth). Boil these very well together, seasoning the 
 Composition in due time, with Salt, Nutmeg, Mace, or what else you please, 
 as Rosemary &c. when it is sufficiently boiled, strain the Oat-meal, and 
 press out all the juyce and humidity of the Currants and Herbs, throwing 
 away the insipid husks; and season it with Sugar and Butter; and to each 
 Porrenger-ful two spoonfuls of Rhenish-wine and the yolk of an Egg. 
  
  
 THE QUEENS BARLEY-CREAM 
  
 You must make a good barley-water, throwing away the three first waters as 
 soon as they boil; which will take up about three quarters of an hour. Then
you boil a large quantity of water with the Barley (which thus prepared 
 makes the water no more Red or Russet) during an hours space or more; (that 
 it may be strong of the Barley; perle-Barley is best,) towards the latter 
 end put in the Pullet flead, and the legs cut off; If it should boil too 
 long, the emulsion would taste too fleshy. When it is enough, let the broth 
 run clear from the Barley and pullet, and beat the Almonds with the broth, 
 and strain them from it. Then sweeten it with Sugar. This is to make at 
 least two English quarts of Emulsion. I should like to put some pulp of 
 Barley, boiled by it self, to strain with the Almond-Milk, and, if you 
 will, some Melon seeds. You may put some juyce of Limon or Orange to it. 
 Also season it with Cinnamon, and make the broth stronger of the flesh. 
  
 The Queens white Potage is made only of the white flesh of Capon beaten 
 with good broth and strained, and a little juyce of Limon or Orange; but no 
 Almonds. 
  
  
 PRESSIS NOURISSANT 
  
 The Queen Mothers _Pressis_ was thus made. Take _un Gigot_ of Mutton, a
BROTH AND POTAGE 
  
 Mounsieur de Bourdeaux used to take a mornings a broth, thus made. Make a 
 very good broth (so as to gelly, when it is cold), a lean piece of a leg of 
 Veal, the Crag-end of a neck of Mutton, and a Pullet, seasoning it with a 
 little Salt, Cloves and Pepper to your mind. Beat some of it with a handful 
 of blanched Almonds and twenty husked-seeds of Citron and strain it to the 
 whole; put Sugar to it, and so drink it as an Emulsion. 
  
 Otherwhiles He would make a Potage of the broth, (made without fruit), 
 boiling and stewing it with some light-bread. 
  
  
 PAN COTTO 
  
 To make a _Pan Cotto_, as the Cardinals use in Rome, Take much thinner 
 broth, made of the fleshes as above (or of Mutton alone) and boil it three 
 hours, gently and close covered in _una pignata_, with lumps of fine 
 light-bread tosted or dried. _Un Pan grattato_ is made the same way with 
 fine light-bread grated. Season the broth of either lightly with Salt, and
proportion with Pepper and Salt. 
  
 This is a proportion to make about a Gallon of Pease-porage. The quantities 
 are set down by guess. The Coriander-seeds are as much as you can 
 conveniently take in the hollow of your hand. You may put in a great good 
 Onion or two. A pretty deal of Parsley, and if you will, and the season 
 afford them, you may add what you like of other Porage herbs, such as they 
 use for their Porages in France. But if you take the savoury herbs dry, you 
 must crumble or beat them to small Powder (as you do the Coriander-seed) 
 and if any part of them be too big to pass through the strainer, after 
 they have given their taste to the quantity, in boiling a sufficient while 
 therein, you put them away with the husks of the Pease. The Pint of Pease 
 that you reserve whole, is only to show that it is Pease-porage. They must 
 be of the thickness of ordinary Pease-porage. For which these proportions 
 will make about a Gallon. 
  
  
 BROTH FOR SICK AND CONVALESCENT PERSONS 
  
 Put a Crag-end of a Neck of Mutton, a Knuckle of Veal, and a Pullet into a
hot. Cover this, and let them stew together gently, not boil; and feed it 
 with fresh-broth, still as it needeth; This will make the bread swell much, 
 and become like gelly. 
  
  
 AN EXCELLENT POSSET 
  
 Take half a pint of Sack, and as much Rhenish wine, sweeten them to your 
 taste with Sugar. Beat ten yolks of Eggs, and eight of whites exceeding 
 well, first taking out the Cocks-tread, and if you will the skins of the 
 yolks; sweeten these also, and pour them to the wine, add a stick or two of 
 Cinnamon bruised, set this upon a Chafing-dish to heat strongly, but not to 
 boil; but it must begin to thicken. In the mean time boil for a quarter of 
 an hour three pints of Cream seasoned duly with Sugar and some Cinnamon in 
 it. Then take it off from boiling, but let it stand near the fire, that it 
 may continue scalding-hot whiles the wine is heating. When both are as 
 scalding-hot as they can be without boiling, pour the Cream into the wine 
 from as high as you can. When all is in, set it upon the fire to stew for 
 1/8 of an hour. Then sprinkle all about the top of it the juyce of a 1/4 
 part of a Limon; and if you will, you may strew Powder of Cinnamon and
Sugar, or Ambergreece upon it. 
  
  
 PEASE OF THE SEEDY BUDS OF TULIPS 
  
 In the Spring (about the beginning of May) the flowry-leaves of Tulips do 
 fall away, and there remains within them the end of the stalk, which in 
 time will turn to seed. Take that seedy end (then very tender) and pick 
 from it the little excrescencies about it, and cut it into short pieces, 
 and boil them and dress them as you would do Pease; and they will taste 
 like Pease, and be very savoury. 
  
  
 BOILED RICE DRY 
  
 The manner of boiling Rice to eat with Butter, is this. In a Pipkin pour 
 upon it as much water, as will swim a good fingers breadth over it. Boil it 
 gently, till it be tender, and all the water drunk into the Rice; which may 
 be in a quarter of an hour or less. Stir it often with a woodden spatule or 
 spoon, that it burn not to the bottom: But break it not. When it is enough,
 
 TO STEW A BREAST OF VEAL 
  
 Take a Breast of Veal half rosted, and put it a stewing with some wine and 
 gravy; three or four yolks of Eggs minced small; a pretty quantity of 
 Sweet-herbs with an Onion, Anchoves or Limon; stick it either with Thyme 
 or Limon-peels, and season it to your liking. 
  
  
 SAUCE OF HORSE RADISH 
  
 Take Roots of Horse-radish scraped clean, and lay them to soak in 
 fair-water for an hour. Then rasp them upon a Grater, and you shall have 
 them all in a tender spungy Pap. Put Vinegar to it, and a very little 
 Sugar, not so much as to be tasted, but to quicken (by contrariety) the 
 taste of the other. 
  
  
 THE QUEENS HOTCHPOT FROM HER ESCUYER DE CUISINE, MR. LA MONTAGUE 
 
The Queen Mothers Hotchpot of Mutton, is thus made. It is exceeding good of 
 fresh Beef also, for those whose Stomacks can digest it. Cut a neck of 
 Mutton, Crag-end and all into steaks (which you may beat, if you will; but 
 they will be very tender without beating) and in the mean time prepare your 
 water to boil in a Possnet, (which must be of a convenient bigness to have 
 water enough, to cover the meat, and serve all the stewing it, without 
 needing to add any more to it; and yet no superfluous water at last.) Put 
 your meat into the boiling water, and when you have scummed it clean, put 
 into it a good handful of Parsley, and as much of Sibboulets (young Onions 
 or Sives) chopped small, if you like to eat them in substance; otherwise 
 tied up in a bouquet, to throw them away, when they have communicated to 
 the water all their taste; some Pepper; three or four Cloves, and a little 
 Salt, and half a Limon first pared. These must stew or boil simpringly, 
 (covered) at least three or four hours (a good deal more, if Beef) 
 stirring it often, that it burn not too. A good hour before you intend to 
 take it off, put some quartered Turneps to it, or, if you like them, some 
 Carrots. A while after, take a good lump of Houshold-bread, bigger than 
 your fist, crust and crum, broil it upon a Gridiron, that it be throughly 
 rosted; scrape off the black burning on the on side; then soak it throughly 
 in Vinegar, and put this lump of tost into your possnet to stew with it;
which you take out and throw away after a while. About a quarter of an hour 
 before you serve it up melt a good lump of Butter (as much as a great Egg) 
 till it grow red; then take it from the fire, and put to it a little fine 
 flower to thicken it (about a couple of spoonfuls) like thick Pap. Stir 
 them very well together; then set them on the fire again, till it grow-red, 
 stirring it all the while; then put to it a ladleful of the liquor of the 
 pot, and let them stew a while together to incorporate, stirring it always. 
 Then pour this to the whole substance in the Possnet, to Incorporate with 
 all the liquor, and so let them stew a while together. Then pour it out of 
 the possnet into your dish, meat and all: for it will be so tender, it will 
 not endure taking up piece by piece with your hand. If you find the taste 
 not quick enough, put into it the juyce of the half Limon, you reserved. 
 For I should have said, that when you put in the Herbs, you squeese in also 
 the juyce of half a Limon (pared from the yellow rinde, which else would 
 make it bitter) and throw the pared and squeesed half (the substance) into 
 it afterwards. The last things (of Butter, bread, flower) cause the 
 liaison and thickening of the liquor. If this should not be enough, you may 
 also put a little gravy of Mutton into it; stirring it well when it is in, 
 least it curdle in stewing, or you may put the yolk of an Egg or two to 
 your liaison of Butter, Flower, and ladleful of broth. For gravy of Mutton.
pierced into the heart by the water, and grown tender.) Then put it to boil 
 very gently, (and with no more water, then well to cover it, which you must 
 supply with new hot water as it consumeth) for six or seven hours at least, 
 that it may be very tender and loose and swelled up. Then press and drain 
 out all the water from it; and heat it again in a dish, with store of 
 melted Butter thickened; and if you like it, you may season it also with 
 Pepper and Mustard. But it will be yet better, if after it is well and 
 tender boiled in water, and that you have pressed all the water you can out 
 of it, you boil it again an hour longer in Milk; out of which when you take 
 it, to put it into the dish with butter, you do not industriously press out 
 all the Milk, as you did the water, but only drain it out gently, pressing 
 it moderately. In the stewing it with butter, season it to your taste, 
 with what you think fitting. 
  
  
 ANOTHER WAY TO DRESS STOCK-FISH 
  
 Beat it exceeding well with a large woodden Mallet, till you may easily 
 pluck it all in pieces, severing every flake from other, and every one of 
 them in it so being loose, spungy and limber, as the whole fish must be,
and plyant like a glove, which will be in less then an hour. Pull then the 
 bones out, and throw them away, and pluck off the skin (as whole as you 
 can; but it will have many breaches and holes in it, by the beating) then 
 gather all the fish together, and lap it in the skin as well as you can, 
 into a round lump, like a bag-pudding, and tye it about with cords or 
 strings (like a little Collar of Brawn, or souced fish) and so put it into 
 lukewarm water (overnight) to soak, covering the vessel close; but you need 
 not keep it near any heat whiles it lyeth soaking. Next morning take it out 
 that water and vessel, and put it into another, with a moderate quantity of 
 other water, to boil; which it must do very leisurely, and but simpringly. 
 The main care must be, that the vessel it boileth in, be covered so 
 exceeding close, that not the least breath of steam get out, else it will 
 not be tender, but tough and hard. It will be boiled enough, and become 
 very tender in about a good half hour. Then take it out, unty it, and throw 
 away the skin, and lay the flaky fish in a Cullender, to drain away the 
 water from it. You must presently throw a little Salt upon it, and all 
 about in it, to season it. For then it will imbibe it into it self 
 presently; whereas if you Salt it not, till it grow cold in the air, it 
 will not take it in. Mean while prepare your sauce of melted well thickened 
 butter (which you may heighten with shreded Onions or Syves, or what well
tasted herbs you please) and if you will, you may first strew upon the fish 
 some very small shreded young Onions, or Sibbouls, or Syves, or Parsley. 
 Then upon that pour the melted butter to cover the fish all over, and soak 
 into it. Serve it in warm and covered. 
  
  
 TO DRESS PARSNEPS 
  
 Scrape well three or four good large roots, cleansing well their outside, 
 and cutting off as much of the little end as is Fibrous, and of the great 
 end as is hard. Put them into a possnet or pot, with about a quart of Milk 
 upon them, or as much as will cover them in boiling, which do moderately, 
 till you find they are very tender. This may be in an hour and half, sooner 
 or later, as the roots are of a good kind. Then take them out, and scrape 
 all the outside into a pulpe, like the pulpe of roasted apples, which put 
 in a dish upon a chafing dish of Coals, with a little of the Milk, you 
 boiled them in, put to them; not so much as to drown them, but only to 
 imbibe them: and then with stewing, the pulpe will imbibe all that Milk. 
 When you see it is drunk in, put to the pulpe a little more of the same 
 Milk, and stew that, till it be drunk in. Continue doing thus till it hath
drunk in a good quantity of the Milk, and is well swelled with it, and will 
 take in no more, which may be in a good half hour. Eat them so, without 
 Sugar or Butter; for they will have a natural sweetness, that is beyond 
 sugar, and will be Unctuous, so as not to need Butter. 
  
 Parsneps (raw) cut into little pieces, is the best food for tame Rabets, 
 and makes them sweet. As Rice (raw) is for tame Pigeons, and they like it 
 best, varying it sometimes with right tares, and other seeds. 
  
  
 CREAM WITH RICE 
  
 A very good Cream to eat hot, is thus made. Into a quart of sweet Cream, 
 put a spoonful of very fine powder of Rice, and boil them together 
 sufficiently, adding Cinnamon, or Mace and Nutmeg to your liking. When it 
 is boiled enough take it from the fire, and beat a couple of yolks of 
 new-laid Eggs, to colour it yellow. Sweeten it to your taste. Put bread to 
 it, in it  '  s due time. 
  
 
GREWEL OF OAT-MEAL AND RICE 
  
 Doctor Pridion ordered my Lord Cornwallis, for his chief diet in his 
 looseness, the following grewel, which he found very tastefull. 
  
 Take about two parts of Oat-meal well beaten in a Mortar, and one part of 
 Rice in subtile powder. Boil these well in water, as you make water-grewel, 
 adding a good proportion of Cinnamon to boil also in due time, then strain 
 it through a cloth, and sweeten it to your taste. 
  
 The yolk of an Egg beaten with a little Sherry-sack, and put to it, is not 
 bad in a looseness. At other times you may add Butter. It is very tasteful 
 and nourishing. 
  
  
 SAUCE FOR A CARP OR PIKE. TO BUTTER PEASE 
  
 Take two or three spoonfuls of the Liquor the Carp was boiled in, and put 
 it into a pipkin; There must be no more, then even to cover the bottom of 
 the pipkin. Make this boil by itself; as soon as it doth so, put to this
half a pound of sweet butter, let it melt gently, or suddenly, it imports 
 not, so as the liquor boiled, when you did put the butter in; when the 
 butter is melted, then take it from the fire, and holding the handle in 
 your hand, shake it round a good while and strongly, and it will come to be 
 thick, that you may almost cut it with a Knife. Then squeese juyce of Limon 
 into it, or of sharp Orange, or Verjuyce or Vinegar; and heat it again as 
 much as you please upon the fire. It will ever after continue thick, and 
 never again, upon any heating, grow oily, though it be cold and heated 
 again twenty times. Butter done with fair water, as is said above, with the 
 other Liquor, will be thick in the same manner, (for the liquors make no 
 difference in that:) 
  
 Put of this butter to boiled Pease in their dish, which cover with another; 
 so shake them very strongly, and a good while together. This is by much the 
 best way to butter pease, and not to let the butter melt in the middle of 
 them, and then stir them long with a spoon. This will grow Oily (though it 
 be good at the first doing) if you heat them again: The other, never; and 
 therefore, is the best way upon all occasions to make such thickened melted 
 Butter. You may make sauce for a Pike in the same manner you did for a 
 Carpe; putting Horse-radish to it if you please.
 
  
 A HERRING-PYE 
  
 Put great store of sliced Onions, with Currants and Raisins of the Sun both 
 above and under the Herrings, and store of Butter, and so bake them. 
  
  
 A SYLLABUB 
  
 Take a reasonable quantity (as about half a Porrenger full) of the Syrup, 
 that hath served in the making of dryed plums; and into a large 
 Syllabub-pot milk or squirt, or let fall from high a sufficient quantity of 
 Milk or Cream. This Syrup is very quick of the fruit, and very weak of 
 Sugar; and therefore makes the Syllabub exceeding well tasted. You may also 
 use the Syrup used in the like manner in the drying of Cherries. 
  
  
 BUTTER AND OIL TO FRY FISH 
 
The best Liquor to fry Fish in, is to take Butter and Salet Oyl, first well 
 clarified together. This hath not the unsavoury taste of Oyl alone, nor the 
 blackness of Butter alone. It fryeth Fish crisp, yellow, and well tasted. 
  
  
 TO PREPARE SHRIMPS FOR DRESSING 
  
 When you will Butter Shrimps, first wash them well in warm Milk and Water 
 equally mingled together, and let them soak a little in it; then wash them 
 again in fresh Milk and Water warmed, letting them also soak therein a 
 while. Do this twice or thrice with fresh Milk and Water. This will take 
 away all the rankness and slimyness of them. Then Butter them, or prepare 
 them for the table, as you think fit. 
  
  
 TOSTS OF VEAL 
  
 My Lady Lusson makes thus her plain tosts of kidney of Veal: Cut the kidney 
 with all the fat about it, and a good piece of the lean flesh besides. Hash 
 all this as small as you can. Put to it a quarter of a pound of picked and
washed Currants, and as much Sugar, one Nutmeg grated, four yolks and two 
 whites of new-laid Eggs raw; work all these very well together, seasoning 
 it with Salt. Spread it thick upon slices of light white-bread cut like 
 tosts. Then fry them in Butter, such quantity as may boil over the tops of 
 the tosts. 
  
  
 TO MAKE MUSTARD 
  
 The best way of making Mustard is this: Take of the best Mustard-seed 
 (which is black) for example a quart. Dry it gently in an oven, and beat it 
 to subtle powder, and searse it. Then mingle well strong Wine-vinegar with 
 it, so much that it be pretty liquid, for it will dry with keeping. Put to 
 this a little Pepper beaten small (white is the best) at discretion, as 
 about a good pugil, and put a good spoonful of Sugar to it (which is not to 
 make it taste sweet, but rather quick, and to help the fermentation) lay a 
 good Onion in the bottom, quartered if you will, and a Race of Ginger 
 scraped and bruised; and stir it often with a Horse-radish root cleansed, 
 which let always lie in the pot, till it have lost it  '  s vertue, then take a 
 new one. This will keep long, and grow better for a while. It is not good
till after a month, that it have fermented a while. 
  
 Some think it will be the quicker, if the seed be ground with fair water, 
 in stead of vinegar, putting store of Onions in it. 
  
 My Lady Holmeby makes her quick fine Mustard thus: Choose true 
 Mustard-seed; dry it in an oven, after the bread is out. Beat and searse it 
 to a most subtle powder. Mingle Sherry-sack with it (stirring it a long 
 time very well, so much as to have it of a fit consistence for Mustard. 
 Then put a good quantity of fine Sugar to it, as five or six spoonfuls, or 
 more, to a pint of Mustard. Stir and incorporate all well together. This 
 will keep good a long time. Some do like to put to it a little (but a 
 little) of very sharp Wine-vinegar. 
  
  
 TO MAKE A WHITE-POT 
  
 Boil three pints of sweet Cream with a very little Salt and some sliced 
 Nutmeg. As soon as it begins to boil, take it from the fire. In the mean 
 time beat the yolks of twelve or fifteen new-laid Eggs very well with some
Rose or Orange-flower-water, and sweeten the Cream to your taste with 
 Sugar. Then beat three or four spoonfuls of Cream with them, and quickly as 
 many more; so proceeding, till you have incorporated all the Cream and all 
 the Eggs. Then pour the Eggs and Cream into a deep dish laid over with 
 sippets of fine light bread, which will rise up to the top for the most 
 part. When it is cooled and thickened enough to bear Raisins of the Sun, 
 strew all over the top with them (well-washed.) Then press a little way 
 into it with great lumps of raw Marrow. Two bones will suffice. Cover your 
 dish with another, and set it upon a great pot of boiling water, with a 
 good space between the water and the dish, that there be room for the hot 
 steam to rise and strike upon the dish. Keep good fire always under your 
 pot. In less then an hour (usually) it is baked enough. You will perceive 
 that, if the Marrow look brown, and be enough baked. If it should continue 
 longer on the heat, it would melt. You may bake it in an oven if you will; 
 but it is hard to regulate it so, that it be not too much or too little: 
 whereas the boiling water is certain. You may strew Ambred Sugar upon it, 
 either before you set it to bake, or after it is done. 
  
  
 FOR ROSTING OF MEAT
 
 To rost fine meat (as Partridge, Pheasant, Chicken, Pigeon) that it be full 
 of juyce; baste it as soon as it is through hot, and time to baste, with 
 Butter. When it is very moist all over, sprinkle flower upon it every 
 where, that by turning about the fire, it may become a thin crust. Then 
 baste it no more till the latter end. This crust will keep in all the 
 juyce. A little before you take it up, baste it again with Butter, and this 
 will melt away all the crust. Then give it three or four turns of the spit, 
 that it may make the outside yellow and crisp. 
  
 You may also baste such meat with yolks of new-laid Eggs, beaten into a 
 thin oyl. But with this you continue basting all the while the meat 
 rosteth. 
  
  
 TO STEW A RUMP OF BEEF 
  
 Take a rump of Beef, break all the bones; season it with Pepper and Salt to 
 your liking; Take three or four Nutmegs, and a quantity of Mace, beat them 
 grossly; Then take a bunch of very good sweet herbs, and one good Onion cut
in quarters, or Garlike, as you like it. Put in half a pint of White-wine 
 Vinegar, and one pint of good Claret, one handful of Sugar; and a piece or 
 two of beef Suet or Butter: shred some Cabbage under and over, and scrape 
 in a pound of good old Cheese. Put all these into an earthen pot, and let 
 it stand in an oven with brown-bread four or five hours; but let the pot be 
 covered close with paste. 
  
  
 TO STEW A RUMP OF BEEF 
  
 Take a fat rump of young Beef, as it comes from the Butcher, and take out 
 all the bones, excepting the tip of it towards the tail that is all fat, 
 which you cannot take out, without spoiling or defacing or breaking it. But 
 take out all the thick bones towards the Chine, and the thick Sinews, that 
 are on the outer sides of the flesh; (which will never become tender with 
 boiling) so that you have nothing but the pure flesh and fat, without any 
 bony or tough substance. Then beat well the lean part with a woodden roling 
 pin, and when you have beaten well one side, turn the other. Then rub it 
 well with Pepper grosly beaten, and salt; just as you would do, to season a 
 Venison pasty, making the seasoning higher or gentler according to your
taste. Then lay it in a fit vessel, with a flat bottom (pipkin or kettle as 
 you have conveniency) that will but just contain it, but so that it may lye 
 at ease. Or you may tye it up in a loose thin linnen cloth, or boulter, as 
 they do Capons _à la mode_, or Brawn, or the like. Then put water upon it, 
 but just to cover it, and boil it close covered a matter of two hours 
 pretty smartly, so that it be well half boiled. Then take it out of that, 
 and put it into another fit vessel, or the same cleansed, and put upon it 
 about two quarts of good strong deep well bodied Claret-wine, and a good 
 bundle of sweet-herbs, (Penny-royal, Sweet-Marjoram, Winter-savory, Limon 
 Thyme, &c.) and a good large Onion peeled, and stuck as close with Cloves, 
 as you can stick it, if you like the taste of Onions. They must be the 
 strong biting Onions, that are round and red: a little Nutmeg, and some 
 Mace. Put to the wine about a pint of the Liquor that you have already 
 boiled the Beef in; and if you would have it strong of the seasoning of 
 Pepper, and Salt; take the bottom of this Liquor. Thus let it boil very 
 gently, simpringly, or rather stew with Char-coal over a little furnace, or 
 a fit Chafing-dish, a matter of three hours, close covered. If the Liquor 
 waste too much, you may recruit it with what you have kept of that, which 
 your beef was boiled in. When it is near time to take it up, stew some 
 Oysters in their own Liquor (to which you may add at the latter end, some
drained from all moisture: put them into the Liquor (with all the 
 Ingredients in it) which you must be sure, be enough to cover them. In ten 
 or twelve days, they will have taken into them the full taste of the 
 pickle, and will keep very good half a year. If you have much supernatant 
 Liquor, you may parboil more Mushrooms next day, and put them to the first. 
 If you have not gathered at once enough for a dressing, you may keep them 
 all night in water to preserve them white, and gather more the next day, to 
 joyn to them. 
  
  
 TO STEW WARDENS OR PEARS 
  
 Pare them, put them into a Pipkin, with so much Red or Claret Wine and 
 water, _ana_, as will near reach to the top of the Pears. Stew or boil 
 gently, till they grow tender, which may be in two hours. After a while, 
 put in some sticks of Cinnamon bruised and a few Cloves. When they are 
 almost done, put in Sugar enough to season them well and their Syrup, which 
 you pour out upon them in a deep Plate. 
  
 
TO STEW APPLES 
  
 Pare them and cut them into slices. Stew them with Wine and Water as the 
 Pears, and season them in like manner with Spice. Towards the end sweeten 
 them with Sugar, breaking the Apples into Pap by stirring them. When you 
 are ready to take them off, put in good store of fresh-butter, and 
 incorporate it well with them, by stirring them together. You stew these 
 between two dishes. The quickest Apples are the best. 
  
  
 PORTUGUEZ EGGS 
  
 The way that the Countess de Penalva makes the Portuguez Eggs for the 
 Queen, is this. Take the yolks (clean picked from the whites and germ) of 
 twelve new-laid Eggs. Beat them exceedingly with a little (scarce a 
 spoonful) of Orange-flower-water. When they are exceeding liquid, clear, 
 and uniformly a thin Liquor, put to them one pound of pure double refined 
 Sugar (if it be not so pure, it must be clarified before) and stew them in 
 your dish or bason over a very gentle fire, stirring them continually, 
 whiles they are over it, so that the whole may become one uniform
substance, of the consistence of an Electuary (beware they grow not too 
 hard; for without much caution and attention, that will happen on a sudden) 
 which then you may eat presently, or put into pots to keep. You may 
 dissolve Ambergreece (if you will, ground first very much with Sugar) in 
 Orange-flower or Rose-water, before hand, and put it (warm and dissolved) 
 to the Eggs, when you set them to stew. If you clarifie your Sugar, do it 
 with one of these waters, and whites of Eggs. The flavor of these 
 sweet-waters goeth almost all away with boiling. Therefore half a spoonful 
 put into the composition, when you take it from the fire, seasoneth it more 
 then ten times as much, put in at the first. 
  
  
 TO BOIL EGGS 
  
 A certain and infallible method to boil new-laid Eggs to sup up, and yet 
 that they have the white turned to milk, is thus: Break a very little hole, 
 at the bigger end of the shell, and put it into the water, whiles it 
 boileth. Let it remain boiling, whiles your Pulse beateth two hundred 
 stroaks. Then take it out immediately, and you will find it of an exact 
 temper: others put Eggs into boyling water just as you take it from the
fire, and let them remain there, till the water be so cooled, that you may 
 just put in your hand, and take out the Eggs. 
  
 Others put the Eggs into cold water, which they set upon the fire, and as 
 soon as the water begins to boil, the Eggs are enough. 
  
  
 TO MAKE CLEAR GELLY OF BRAN 
  
 Take two pound of the broadest open Bran of the best Wheat, and put it to 
 infuse in a Gallon of Water, during two or three days, that the water may 
 soak into the pure flower, that sticks to the bran. Then boil it three or 
 four walms, and presently take it from the fire, and strain it through some 
 fine strainer. A milky substance will come out, which let stand to settle 
 about half a day. Pour off the clear water, that swimmeth over the starch 
 or flomery, that is in the bottom (which is very good for Pap, &c.) and 
 boil it up to a gelly, as you do Harts-horn gelly or the like, and season 
 it to your taste. 
  
 
peeled and quartered, and two bay-leaves, before you put them into the 
 oven. Before they are set in, you do not fill them with water to the top, 
 least any should spill in sliding them in; but fill them up by a bowl 
 fastned to a long Pole. No water must be put in, after the oven is closed 
 (nor the oven ever be opened, till after all is throughly baked) and 
 therefore you must put in enough at first to serve to the last; you must 
 rowl your Collars as close as may be, that no air may be left in the folds 
 of them: and sow them up in exceeding strong cloth, which a strong man must 
 pull as hard as He can in the sowing. Their cloths must not be pulled off, 
 till the Collars have been three or four days out of the oven, least you 
 pull off part of the Brawn with them. You may put the same proportion of 
 Pepper, Cloves, &c. into the Souce drink as you did in the baking them; 
 which at either time (especially at first) give them a fine taste. The 
 Souce-drink is made of six shillings Beer, and Thames or River-water, of 
 each an equal quantity, well boiled with Salt. When boiled and cold, put in 
 to it two or three quarts of skimmed Milk, only to colour it; and so change 
 it once in three Weeks. Tender Brawn sliced thin, and laid Sallet-wise in a 
 dish as the sliced Capon, and seasoned with Pepper, Salt and Vinegar and 
 Oyl, with a little Limon, is a very good Sallet. 
 
 
 SALLET OF COLD CAPON ROSTED 
  
 It is a good Sallet, to slice a cold Capon thin; mingle with it some 
 Sibbolds, Lettice, Rocket and Tarragon sliced small. Season all with 
 Pepper, Salt, Vinegar and Oyl, and sliced Limon. A little Origanum doth 
 well with it. 
  
  
 MUTTON BAKED LIKE VENISON, SOAKING EITHER IN THEIR BLOOD 
  
 Take a large fat loin of Mutton (or two) boned after the manner of Venison. 
 Season it well to your taste with Pepper and Salt. Then lay it to steep all 
 night in enough of the sheep  '  s blood, to cover it over, and soak well into 
 it. Then lay it into the past, with all the clotted thick blood, under it, 
 upon it, and hanging about it. You may season the blood with Pepper and 
 Salt, before you lay the meat in it. But though you do not, it will not be 
 amiss, so as the meat be seasoned high enough. Then bake it as you do an 
 ordinary Pasty; and you may put gravy of Mutton or strong broth into it. 
 You may do it in a dish with past; as My Lady of Newport doth Her Venison.
This way of steeping in blood before you bake it, is very good also for 
 Venison. 
  
  
 TO MAKE AN EXCELLENT HARE-PYE 
  
 Hash the flesh of as many Hares, as you please, very small. Then beat them 
 strongly in a Mortar into a Paste, which season duly with Pepper and Salt. 
 Lard it throughly all over with great Lardons of Lard well rowled in Pepper 
 and Salt. Put this into a straight earthen pot, to lye close in it. If you 
 like Onions, you may put one or two quartered into the bottom of the Pot. 
 Put store of Sweet-butter upon the meat, and upon that, some strong red 
 Claret-wine. Cover the pot with a double strong brown paper, tyed close 
 about the mouth of it. Set it to bake with houshold-bread (or in an oven, 
 as a Venison pasty) for eight or ten hours. Then take out the pot, and 
 thence the meat, and pour away all the Liquor, which let settle. Then take 
 all the congealed Butter, and clarifie it well. Put your meat again into 
 the pot, and put upon it your clarified Butter, and as much more as is 
 necessary. And I believe the putting of Claret-wine to it now is better, 
 and to omit it before. Bake it again, but a less while. Pour out all the
Liquor, when it is baked, and clarifie the Butter again, and pour it upon 
 the meat, and so let it cool; The Butter must be at least two or three 
 fingers breadth over the meat. 
  
  
 TO BAKE BEEF 
  
 Bone it, and beat it exceeding well on all sides, with a roling pin, upon a 
 table. Then season it with Pepper and Salt, (rubbing them in very well) and 
 some Parsley, and a few Sweet herbs (Penny-royal, Winter-savoury, 
 Sweet-marjoram, Limon Thyme, Red-sage, which yet to some seems to have a 
 Physical taste) an Onion if you will. Squeese it into the pot as close as 
 you can. Put Butter upon it, and Claret-wine, and covered all as above. 
 Bake it in a strong oven eight or ten hours. Take it out of the oven, and 
 the meat out of the pot, which make clean, from all settlings; and squeese 
 all the juyce from it (even by a gentle press.) Then put it in again hard 
 pressed into the pot. Clarifie the Butter, that you poured with the Liquor 
 from the meat out of the pot; and pour it again with more flesh, to have 
 enough to cover it two or three fingers thick. 
 
 
 TO BAKE PIDGEONS, (WHICH ARE THUS EXCELLENT, AND WILL KEEP A QUARTER OF A 
 YEAR) OR TEALS, OR WILD-DUCKS 
  
 Season them duly with Pepper and Salt; then lay them in the pot, and put 
 store of Butter, and some Claret-wine to them. Cover and bake as above: but 
 a less while according to the tenderness of the meat. In due time take out 
 your pot, and your birds out of it, which press not, but only wipe off the 
 Liquor. Pour it out all. Clarifie the Butter; put in the birds again, and 
 the clarified butter, and as much more as needs (all melted) upon them, and 
 let it cool. You may put a few Bay-leaves upon any of these baked meats, 
 between the meat and the Butter. 
  
  
 GREEN-GEESE-PYE 
  
 An excellent cold Pye is thus made. Take two fat Green-geese; bone them, 
 and lay them in paste one upon the other, seasoning them well with Pepper 
 and Salt, and some little Nutmeg, both above and below and between the two 
 Geese. When it is well-baked and out of the oven, pour in melted Butter at
Rost wilde Ducks putting into their Bellies some Sage and a little Onion 
 (both well shreded) wrought into a lump with butter, adding a little Pepper 
 and Salt. And let their sauce be a little gravy of Mutton, to enlarge the 
 seasoned gravy, that comes from the Ducks when they are cut up. 
  
  
 TO SOUCE TURKEYS 
  
 Take a good fat Turkey or two; dress them clean, and bone them; then tye 
 them up in the manner of Sturgeon with some thing clean washed. Take your 
 kettle, and put into it a pottle of good White-wine, a quart of Water, and 
 a quart of Vinegar; make it boil, and season it with Salt pretty well. Then 
 put in your Turkeys, and let them boil till they be very tender. When they 
 are enough boiled, take them out, and taste the Liquor; if it be not sharp 
 enough, put more Vinegar, and let it boil a little; then put it into an 
 earthen pot, that will hold both Turkeys. When it is cold enough, and the 
 Turkeys through-cold, put them into the Liquor in the Pot, and be sure they 
 be quite covered with the Liquor; Let them lye in it three weeks or a 
 month; Then serve it to the table, with Fennel on it, and eat it with elder 
 Vinegar.
less Tansey, so little that it may not taste distinctly in the composition. 
 The juyce of Limons is put in at the end of all. You may lay thin slices of 
 Limon upon the Tansey made, and Sugar upon them. 
  
  
 ANOTHER WAY 
  
 Beat twelve Eggs (six whites put away) by themselves exceeding well (two or 
 three hours), sometimes putting in a spoonful of Cream to keep them from 
 oyling; Then mingle them well with a quart of Cream; to which put about 
 half a pint of juyce of Spinage (as much as will make the Cream green) or 
 of green wheat, and four spoonfuls of juyce or Tansey, one Nutmeg scraped 
 into thin slices, and half a pound of Sugar; All things exceeding well 
 Incorporated together; Fry this with fresh butter, no more then to glase 
 the Pan over, and keep the Tansey from sticking to the Pan. 
  
  
 TO MAKE CHEESE-CAKES 
  
 Take twelve quarts of Milk warm from the Cow, turn it with a good spoonful
of Runnet. Break it well, and put it into a large strainer, in which rowl 
 it up and down, that all the Whey may run out into a little tub; when all 
 that will is run out, wring out more. Then break the curds well; then wring 
 it again, and more whey will come. Thus break and wring till no more come. 
 Then work the Curds exceedingly with your hand in a tray, till they become 
 a short uniform Paste. Then put to it the yolks of eight new laid Eggs, and 
 two whites, and a pound of butter. Work all this long together. 
  
 In the long working (at the several times) consisteth the making them 
 good. Then season them to your taste with Sugar finely beaten; and put in 
 some Cloves and Mace in subtile powder. Then lay them thick in Coffins of 
 fine Paste, and bake them. 
  
  
 SHORT AND CRISP CRUST FOR TARTS AND PYES 
  
 To half a peck of fine flower, take a pound and half of Butter, in this 
 manner. Put your Butter with at least three quarts of cold water (it 
 imports not how much or how little the water is) into a little kettle to 
 melt, and boil gently: as soon as it is melted, scum off the Butter with a
is thus. Have Coops, wherein every fowl is a part, and not room to turn in, 
 and means to cleanse daily the ordure behind them, and two troughs; for 
 before that, one may be scalding and drying the day the other is used, and 
 before every fowl one partition for meat, another for drink. All their 
 Meat is this: Boil Barley in water, till it be tender, keep some so, and 
 another parcel of it boil with Milk, and another with strong Ale. Let them 
 be boiled as wheat that is creed. Use them different days for variety, to 
 get the fowl appetite. Lay it in their trough, with some Brown-Sugar 
 mingled with it. In the partition for Liquor, let them have water or strong 
 Ale to drink. They will be very drunk and sleep; then eat again. Let a 
 Candle stand all night over the Coop, and then they will eat much of the 
 night. With this course they will be prodigiously fat in a fortnight. Be 
 sure to keep them very sweet. This maketh the taste pure. 
  
  
 ANOTHER WAY OF FEEDING CHICKEN 
  
 Take Barley meal, and with droppings of small Ale, (or Ale it self) make it 
 into a consistence of batter for Pan-cakes. Let this be all their food. 
 Which put into the troughs before them, renewing it thrice a day, morning,
noon and evening; making their troughs very clean every time, and keeping 
 their Coops always very clean and sweet. This is to serve them for drink as 
 well as meat, and no other drink be given them. Feed them thus six days; 
 the seventh give them nothing in their troughs but powder of brick searced, 
 which scowreth and cleanseth them much, and makes their flesh exceeding 
 white. The next day fall to their former food for six days more, and the 
 seventh again to powder of Brick. Then again to barley Meal and Ale. Thus 
 they will be exceeding fat in fifteen days, and purely white and sweet. 
  
  
 TO FATTEN YOUNG CHICKENS IN A WONDERFULL DEGREE 
  
 Boil Rice in Milk till it be very tender and Pulpy, as when you make Milk 
 Potage. It must be thick, almost so thick, that a spoon may stand an-end in 
 it. Sweeten this very well with ordinary Sugar. Put this into their troughs 
 where they feed, that they may be always eating of it. It must be made 
 fresh every day. Their drink must be onely Milk, in another little trough 
 by their meat-trough. Let a candle (fitly disposed) stand by them all 
 night; for seeing their meat, they will eat all night long. You put the 
 Chicken up, as soon as they can feed of themselves; which will be within a
day or two after they are hatched, and in twelve days, or a fortnight, they 
 will be prodigiously fat; but after they have come to their height, they 
 will presently fall back. Therefore they must be eaten as soon as they are 
 come to their height. Their Pen or Coop must be contrived so, that the Hen 
 (who must be with them, to sit over them) may not go at liberty to eat away 
 their meat, but be kept to her own diet, in a part of the Coop that she 
 cannot get out of. But the Chicken must have liberty to go from her to 
 other parts of the Coop, where they may eat their own meat, and come in 
 again to the Hen, to be warmed by her, at their pleasure. You must be 
 careful to keep their Coop very clean. 
  
  
 TO FEED CHICKEN 
  
 Fatten your Chicken the first week with Oatmeal scalded in Milk; the second 
 with Rice and Sugar in Milk. In a fortnight they will be prodigiously fat. 
 It is good to give them sometimes a little Gravel, or powder of Glass, to 
 cleanse their maws, and give them appetite. 
  
 If you put a little bran with their meat, it will keep their maws clean,
and give them appetite. 
  
  
 ANOTHER EXCELLENT WAY TO FATTEN CHICKEN 
  
 Boil white bread in Milk, as though you were to eat it; but make it thick 
 of the bread, which is sliced into it in thin slices, not so thick as if it 
 were to make a pudding; but so, that when the bread is eaten out, there may 
 some liquid milk remain for the Chicken to drink; or that at first you may 
 take up some liquid Milk in a spoon, if you industriously avoid the bread: 
 sweeten very well this potage with good Kitchin Sugar of six pence a pound; 
 so put it into the trough before them. Put there but a little at a time, 
 (two or three spoonfuls) that you may not clog them, and feed them five 
 times a day, between their wakening in the morning, and their roosting at 
 night. Give them no other drink; the Milk that remaineth after they have 
 eaten the bread, is sufficient; neither give them Gravel, or ought else. 
 Keep their Coops very clean, as also their troughs, cleansing them very 
 well every morning. To half a dozen very little Chickens, little bigger 
 then black-birds, an ordinary porenger full every day may serve. And in 
 eight days they will be prodigiously fat, one peny loaf, and less then two
quarts of Milk and about half a pound of Sugar will serve little ones the 
 whole time. Bigger Chickens will require more, and two or three days longer 
 time. When any of them are at their height of fat, you must eat them; for 
 if they live longer, they will fall back, and grow lean. Be sure to make 
 their potage very sweet. 
  
  
 AN EXCELLENT WAY TO CRAM CHICKEN 
  
 Stone a pound of Raisins of the Sun, and beat them in a Mortar to Pulp; 
 pour a quart of Milk upon them, and let them soak so all night. Next 
 morning stir them well together, and put to them so much Crums of Grated 
 stale white bread as to bring it to a soft paste, work all well together, 
 and lay it in the trough before the Chicken (which must not be above six in 
 a pen, and keep it very clean) and let a candle be by them all night. The 
 delight of this meat will make them eat continually; and they will be so 
 fat (when they are but of the bigness of a Black-bird) that they will not 
 be able to stand, but lie down upon their bellies to eat. 
  
 
TO FEED PARTRIDGES THAT YOU HAVE TAKEN WILDE 
  
 You must often change their food, giving them but of one kind at a time, 
 that so their appetites may be fresh to the others, when they are weary of 
 the present. Sometimes dry wheat; Sometimes wheat soaked two or three days 
 in water, to make it soft and tender; Sometimes barley so used; Sometimes 
 oats in like manner. Give them continually to lie by them; Some of the 
 great green leaves of Cabbages, that grow at the bottom of the stalk, and 
 that are thrown away, when you gather the Cabbage; which you may give them 
 either whole or a little chopped. Give them often Ants and their Eggs, 
 laying near them the inward mould of an Ant hill, taken up with the Ants in 
 it. 
  
  
 TO MAKE PUFFS 
  
 Take new milk Curds, strained well from the whey; then rub them very well; 
 season them with Nutmeg, Mace, Rose-water and Sugar; then take an Egg or 
 two, a good piece of Butter, and a handful of flower; work all together, 
 and make them into Balls; bake them in an oven, upon sheets of Paper; when
they are baked, serve them up with butter melted and beaten with Rose-water 
 and Sugar. In stead of flower, you may take fine grated-bread, dried very 
 well, but not Crisp. 
  
  
 APPLES IN GELLY 
  
 My Lady Paget makes her fine preserved Pippins, thus: They are done best, 
 when Pippins are in their prime for quickness, which is in November. Make 
 your Pippin-water as strong as you can of the Apples, and that it may be 
 the less boiled, and consequently the paler, put in at first the greatest 
 quantity of pared and quartered Apples, the water will bear. To every Pint 
 of Pippin-water add (when you put the Sugar to it) a quarter of a pint of 
 fair spring-water, that will bear soap (of which sort only you must use) 
 and use half a pound of Sugar, the purest double refined. If you will have 
 much gelly, two Pippins finely pared and whole, will be enough; you may put 
 in more, if you will have a greater proportion of substance to the gelly. 
 Put at first but half the Sugar to the Liquor; for so it will be the paler. 
 Boil the Apples by themselves in fair water, with a very little Sugar, to 
 make them tender; then put them into the liquor, and the rest, the other
half of the Sugar with them. Boil them with a quick fire, till they be 
 enough, and the liquor do gelly, and that you see the Apples look very 
 clear, and as though they were transparent. You must put the juyce of two 
 Limons and half an Orange to this in the due time. Every Pippin should be 
 lapped over in a broad-pill of Orange; which you must prepare thus. Pare 
 your Orange broad and very thin, and all hanging together, rub it with 
 Salt, prick it, and boil it in several waters, to take away the bitterness, 
 and make it tender. Then preserve it by it self with sufficient quantity of 
 Sugar. When it is throughly done, and very tender (which you must cast to 
 do before hand, to be ready when the Apples are ready to be put up) take 
 them out of their Syrup, and lap every Pippin in an Orange-peel, and put 
 them into a pot or glass, and pour the liquor upon them: which will be 
 gelly over and about the Apples, when all is cold. This proportion of 
 liquor, Apples, and Orange-peels, will take up about three quarters of a 
 pound of Sugar in all. If you would keep them any time, you must put in 
 weight for weight of Sugar. 
  
 I conceive Apple-John  '  s in stead of Pippins will do better, both for the 
 gelly and Syrup; especially at the latter end of the year; and I like them 
 thin sliced, rather than whole; and the Orange-peels scattered among them
 
 A FLOMERY-CAUDLE 
  
 When Flomery is made and cold, you may make a pleasant and wholesome caudle 
 of it, by taking some lumps and spoonfuls of it, and boil it with Ale and 
 White wine, then sweeten it to your taste with Sugar. There will remain in 
 the Caudle some lumps of the congealed flomery, which are not ungrateful. 
  
  
 PLEASANT CORDIAL TABLETS, WHICH ARE VERY COMFORTING, AND STRENGTHEN NATURE 
 MUCH 
  
 Take four ounces of blanched Almonds; of Pine kernels, and of Pistachios, 
 _ana_, four Ounces. Erin-go-roots, Candid-Limon peels, _ana_, three Ounces, 
 Candid Orange peels two Ounces, Candid Citron-peels four Ounces, of powder 
 of white Amber, as much as will lie upon a shilling; and as much of the 
 powder of pearl, 20 grains of Ambergreece, three grains of Musk, a book of 
 leaf gold, Cloves and Mace, of each as much as will lie upon a three pence; 
 cut all these as small as possible you can. Then take a pound of Sugar, and 
 half a pint of water, boil it to a candy-height, then put in the
Ambergreece and Musk, with three or four spoonfulls of Orange flower water. 
 Then put in all the other things and stir them well together, and cast them 
 upon plates, and set them to dry: when both sides are dry, take 
 Orange-flower-water and Sugar, and Ice them. 
  
  
 TO MAKE HARTS-HORN GELLY 
  
 Take four Ounces of Harts-horn rasped, boil it in four pound of water, till 
 it will be a gelly, which you may try upon a plate (it will be so, in four 
 or five or six hours gentle boiling) and then pass the clear liquor from 
 the horn (which will be a good quart) then set it on the fire again with 
 fine Sugar in it to your taste; when that is dissolved (or at the same time 
 you put that in) put half a pound of white-wine or Sack into it, and a bag 
 of Spice, containing a little Ginger, a stick of Cinnamon bruised, a Nutmeg 
 quartered, two or three Cloves, and what other Spice you like, but Pepper. 
 As soon as it beginneth to boil, put into it the whites of three or four 
 Eggs beaten, and let it boil up gently, till the Eggs harden into a curd. 
 Then open it with a spoon, and pour into it the juyce of three or four 
 good Limons; then take it presently off the fire, letting it not boil more
