kind of Sweet meats you like best upon every one, so close them up and 
 fry them with Butter, and serve them in with fine Sugar strewed on. 
  
  
 149. _To boil a Capon on the French fashion._ 
  
 Boil your Capon in water and salt, and a little dusty Oatmeal to make it 
 look white, then take two or three Ladles full of Mutton Broth, a Faggot 
 of sweet herbs, two or three Dates cut in long pieces, a few parboiled 
 Currans, and a little whole Pepper, a little Mace and Nutmeg, thicken 
 it with Almonds; season it with Verjuice, Sugar, and a little sweet 
 Butter, then take up your Capon and lard it well with preserved Limon, 
 then lay it in a deep Dish, and pour the broth upon it; then Garnish 
 your Dish with Suckets and preserved Barberries. 
  
  
 150. _To Souce a Pike, Carp or Bream._ 
  
 Draw your Fish, but scale it not, and save the Liver of it; wash it very 
 well, then take white Wine, as much water again as Wine, boil them
together with whole Spice, Salt and a bundle of sweet Herbs, and when 
 boiles put in your Fish, and just before it a little Vinegar; for that 
 will make it crisp: when it is enough, take it up and put it into a 
 Trey, then put into the Liquor some whole Pepper, and whole Ginger, and 
 when it is boiled enough, take it off and cool it, and when it is quite 
 cold, put in your Fish, and when you serve it in, lay some of the Jelly 
 about the Dish sides, and some Fennel and Sawcers of Vinegar. 
  
  
 151. _To boil a Gurnet on the French fashion._ 
  
 Draw your Gurnet and wash it, boil it in water and salt and a bundle of 
 sweet herbs; when it is enough, take it up and put it into a Dish with 
 Sippets over a Chafingdish of Coals; then take Verjuice, Butter, Nutmeg 
 and Pepper, and the yolks of two Eggs, heat it together, and pour over 
 it; Garnish your Dish as you please. 
  
  
 152. _To rost a Leg of Mutton on the French fashion._ 
 
Take a Leg of Mutton, and pare off all the Skin as thin as you can, then 
 lard it with sweet Lard, and stick it with Cloves, when it is half 
 rosted, cut off three or four thin pieces, and mince it with sweet 
 herbs, and a little beaten Ginger, put in a Ladle full of Claret wine, 
 and a little sweet butter, two sponfuls of Verjuice and a little Pepper, 
 a few Capers, then chop the yolks of two hard Eggs in it, then when 
 these have stewed a while in a Dish, put your bonie part which is rosted 
 into a Dish, and pour this on it and serve it in. 
  
  
 153. _To rost a Neats tongue._ 
  
 Chop sweet herbs fine with a piece of raw Apple, season it with Pepper 
 and Ginger, and the yolk of an Egg made hard and minced small, then 
 stuff your Tongue with this, and rost it well, and baste it with Butter 
 and Wine; when it is enough, take Verjuice, Butter, and the Juice of a 
 Limon, and a little Nutmeg, then Dish your Tongue and pour this Sauce 
 over it and serve it in. 
  
 
154. _To boil Pigeons with Rice._ 
  
 Take your Pigeons and truss them, and stuff their bellies with sweet 
 herbs, then put them into a Pipkin with as much Mutton broth as will 
 cover them, with a blade of Mace and some whole Pepper; boil all these 
 together until the Pigeons be tender, and put in Salt: 
  
 Then take them from the fire, and scum off the Fat very clean, then put 
 in a piece of sweet Butter, season it with Verjuice, Nutmeg and a little 
 Sugar, thicken it with Rice boiled in sweet Cream. Garnish your Dish 
 with preserved Barberries and Skirret Roots boiled tender. 
  
  
 155. _To boil a Rabbit._ 
  
 Take a large Rabbit, truss it and boil it with a little Mutton Broth, 
 white Wine and a blade of Mace, then take Lettuce, Spinage, and Parsley, 
 Winter-Savory and sweet Marjoram, pick all these and wash them clean, 
 and bruise them a little to make the Broth look green, thicken it with 
 the Crust of a Manchet first steeped in a little Broth, and put in a
little sweet Butter, season it with Verjuice and Pepper, and serve it to 
 the Table upon Sippets; Garnish the Dish with Barberries. 
  
  
 156. _To boil a Teal or Wigeon._ 
  
 Parboil either of these Fowls and throw them into a pail of fair Water, 
 for that taketh away the Rankness, then rost them half, and take them 
 from the fire, and put sweet herbs in the bellies of them, and stick the 
 Brests with Cloaves, then put them in a Pipkin with two or three ladles 
 full of Mutton broth, very strong of the Meat, a blade of whole Mace, 
 two or three little Onions minced small; thicken it with a Toast of 
 Houshold bread, and put in a little Butter, then put in a little 
 Verjuice, so take it up and serve it. 
  
  
 157. _To boil Chickens or Pigeons with Goosberries or Grapes._ 
  
 Boil them with Mutton Broth and white Wine, with a blade of Mace and a 
 little Salt, and let their bellies be filled with sweet herbs, when they
are tender thicken the Broth with a piece of Manchet, and the yolks of 
 two hard Eggs, strained with some of the Broth, and put it into a deep 
 Dish with some Verjuice and Butter and Sugar, then having Goosberries or 
 Grapes tenderly scalded, put them into it, then lay your Chickens or 
 Pigeons into a Dish, and pour the Sauce over them, and serve them in. 
  
  
 158. _A made Dish of Rabbits Livers._ 
  
 Take six Livers and chop them fine with sweet herbs and the yolks of two 
 hard Eggs, season it with beaten Spice, and Salt, and put in some 
 plumped Currans, and a little melted Butter, so mix them very well 
 together, and having some Paste ready rouled thin, make it into little 
 Pasties and fry them, strew Sugar over them and serve them. 
  
  
 159. _To make a Florentine with the Brawn of a Capon, or the Kidney of 
 Veal._ 
  
 Mince any of these with sweet Herbs, then put in parboiled Currans, and
Dates minced small, and a little Orange or Limon Pill which is Candied 
 shred small, season it with beaten Spice and Sugar, then take the yolks 
 of two hard Eggs and bruise them with a little Cream, a piece of a short 
 Cake grated, and Marrow cut in short pieces, mix all these together with 
 the forenamed Meat, and put in a little Salt and a little Rosewater, and 
 bake it in a Dish in a Puff-Past, and when you serve it strew Sugar over 
 it. 
  
  
 160. _A Friday Pie without Fish or Flesh._ 
  
 Wash a good quantity of green Beets, and pluck out the middle string, 
 then chop them small, with two or three ripe Apples well relished, 
 season it with Pepper, Salt, and Ginger, then add to it some Currans, 
 and having your Pie ready, and Butter in the bottom, put in these herbs, 
 and with them a little Sugar, then put Butter on the top, and close and 
 bake it, then cut it up, and put in the juice of a Limon and Sugar. 
  
  
 161. _To make Umble Pies._
 
 Boil them very tender, and mince them very small with Beef Suet and 
 Marrow then season it with beaten Spice and Salt, Rosewater and Sugar 
 and a little Sack, so put it into your Paste with Currans and Dates. 
  
  
 162. _To bake Chickens with Grapes._ 
  
 Scald your Chickens and truss them, and season them with Pepper, Salt 
 and Nutmeg, and having your Pie ready, and Butter laid in the bottom, 
 put in your Chickens, and then more butter, and bake them with a thin 
 Lid on your Pie, and when it is baked, put in Grapes scalded tender, 
 Verjuice, Nutmeg, Butter and Sugar, and the Juice of an Orange; so serve 
 it in. 
  
  
 163. _To make a good Quince-Pie._ 
  
 Take your fairest Quinces and Coddle them until a straw will run through 
 them, then core them and pare them, then take their weight in fine
and Sugar, and garnish it with Bay-leaves. 
  
  
 166. _To bake a Swan._ 
  
 Scald it and take out the bones, and parboil it, then season it very 
 well with Pepper, Salt and Ginger, then lard it, and put it in a deep 
 Coffin of Rye Paste with store of Butter, close it and bake it very 
 well, and when it is baked, fill up the Vent-hole with melted Butter, 
 and so keep it; serve it in as you do the Beef-Pie. 
  
  
 167. _To bake a Turkey or Capon._ 
  
 Bone the Turkey but not the Capon, parboil them, and stick Cloves on 
 their brests, lard them and season them well with Pepper and Salt, and 
 put them in a deep Coffin with good store of Butter, and close your Pie, 
 and bake it, and soak it very well; when it is baked, fill it up with 
 melted Butter, and when it is quite cold, serve it in and eat it with 
 Mustard and Sugar: garnish it with Bay Leaves.
 
 Bone your Goose and parboil it, and season it with Pepper and Salt, and 
 lay it into a deep Coffin with good store of Butter top and bottom, then 
 bake it very well, and when it is baked, fill up the pie at the 
 Vent-hole with melted Butter, and so serve it in with Mustard and Sugar 
 and Bay-Leaves. 
  
  
 171. _To make Pancakes so crisp as you may set them upright._ 
  
 Make a dozen or a score of them in a little Frying-pan, no bigger than a 
 Sawcer, then boil them in Lard, and they will look as yellow as Gold, 
 and eat very well. 
  
  
 172. _To make blanched Manchet._ 
  
 Take six Eggs, half a Pint of sweet cream, and a penny Manchet grated, 
 one Nutmeg grated, two spoonfuls of Rosewater, and two Ounces of Sugar, 
 work it stiff like a Pudding, then fry it in a very little frying-pan,
throw them into boiling water, and let them boil till they are enough, 
 you may also put some green Goosberries into some, and when either of 
 these are boiled, cut them open and put in Rosewater Butter and Sugar. 
  
  
 182. _To make_ French _Puffs._ 
  
 Take Spinage Parsley and Endive, with a little Winter savory, and wash 
 them, and mince them very fine; season them with Nutmeg, Ginger and 
 Sugar, season them with Eggs, and put in a little Salt, then cut a Limon 
 into thin round slices, and upon every slice of Limon lay one spoonful 
 of it. 
  
 Then fry them, and serve them in upon some Sippets, and pour over them 
 Sack, Sugar and butter. 
  
  
 183. _To make Apple Puffs._ 
  
 Take a Pomewater, or any other Apple that is not hard or harsh in taste,
mince it with a few Raisins of the Sun stoned, then wet them with Eggs, 
 and beat them together with the back of a Spoon, season them with 
 Nutmeg, Rosewater, Sugar, and Ginger, drop them into a frying pan with a 
 Spoon into hot Butter, and fry them, then serve them in with the juice 
 of an Orange and a little Sugar and Butter. 
  
  
 184. _To make Kickshaws, to bake or fry in what shape you please._ 
  
 Take some Puff-paste and roul it thin, if you have Moulds work it upon 
 them with preserved Pippins, and so close them, and fry or bake them, 
 but when you have closed them you must dip them in the yolks of Eggs, 
 and that will keep all in; fill some with Goosberries, Rasberries, Curd, 
 Marrow, Sweet-breads, Lambs Stones, Kidney of Veal, or any other thing 
 what you like best, either of them being seasoned before you put them in 
 according to your mind, and when they are baked or fryed, strew Sugar on 
 them, and serve them in. 
  
  
 185. _To make an_ Italian _Pudding._
fry thin slices of Bacon, and lay upon them, and some Samphire washed 
 from the Salt, and some slices of Limon; Garnish your Dish with the same 
 and serve it in. 
  
  
 195. _To boil Sausages._ 
  
 Take two pounds of Sausages, and boil them with a quart of Claret Wine 
 and a bundle of sweet herbs, and whole Cloves and Mace; then put in a 
 little Butter, when they are enough, serve them in with this Liquor and 
 some Mustard in Sawcers. 
  
  
 196. _To boil Goose Giblets._ 
  
 Boil them with water and salt, and a bundle of sweet herbs, Onions and 
 whole spice, when they are enough, put in Verjuice and Butter, and some 
 Currans plumped, and serve them upon Sippets. 
  
 Thus you may dress Swans Giblets.
 
  
 197. _To boil Giblets with Roots and good Herbs._ 
  
 Boil them in a quart of Claret, Ginger and Cloves, and a Faggot of sweet 
 herbs, Turneps and Carots sliced, with good store of Spinage and a 
 little salt; when they are enough, serve them upon Sippets. 
  
 And add to the Broth some Verjuice and the yolks of Eggs; Garnish your 
 Dish with Parsley and pickled Barberries. 
  
  
 198. _To smoor a Neck of Mutton._ 
  
 Cut your Steaks, and put them into a Dish with some Butter, then take a 
 Faggot of sweet herbs and some gross Pepper and a little Salt, and put 
 them to them; cover your Dish, and let them stew till they are enough, 
 turning them sometimes, then put in a little Claret Wine and Anchovies, 
 and serve them upon Sippets. 
 
 
  
 204. [Transcriber  '  s note: so numbered in original] _To dress Calves 
 feet._ 
  
 Take Calves feet tenderly boiled, and slit them in the middle, then put 
 them in a Dish with sweet Butter, Parsley and Onions chopped a little 
 Thyme, large Mace, Pepper with a little Wine Vinegar, and a little salt, 
 let all these stew together till they are enough, then lay your Calves 
 feet in a Dish, and pour the Sauce over them, then strew some raw 
 Parsley and hard Eggs chopped together over them with slices of Limon 
 and Barberries. 
  
  
 205. _To hash Neats tongues._ 
  
 Boil them and blanch them, and slice them thin then take Raisins of the 
 Sun, large Mace, Dates sliced thin, a few blanched Almonds and Claret 
 wine with a little salt; boil all these together with some sweet butter, 
 verjuice and sugar; when they are enough, serve them in and thicken the
that broth into another Pot, with three or four blades of Mace, some 
 Currans and Salt, boil them till half be consumed, then put in some 
 sweet Butter, and some Capers and a Limon cut like Dice with the Rind 
 on, a little Sack, and the yolks of two hard Eggs minced; then lay your 
 Mutton into a Dish upon Sippets, and pour this Sauce over it; scrape 
 Sugar on the sides of your Dish, and lay on slices of Limon and 
 Barberries. 
  
  
 210. _To stew Trouts._ 
  
 Put two Trouts into a fair dish with some white Wine, sweet butter, and 
 a little whole Mace, a little Parsley, Thyme and Savory minced, then put 
 in an Anchovy and the yolks of hard Eggs; when your Fish is enough, 
 serve it on Sippets, and pour this over it, and garnish your Dish with 
 Limon and Barberries, and serve them in: you may add Capers to it if you 
 please, and you may do other Fish in this manner. 
  
  
 211. _To boil Eels in Broth to serve with them._
 
 Flay and wash your Eels and cut them in pieces about a handful long, 
 then put them into a pot with so much Water as will cover them, a little 
 Pepper and Mace, sliced Onions, a little grated bread, and a little 
 Yest, a good piece of sweet butter, some Parsley, Winter Savory and 
 Thyme shred small; let them boil softly half an hour, and put in some 
 Salt, with some Currans; when it is enough, put in Verjuice and more 
 Butter, and so serve it; Garnish your Dish with Parsley, Limon and 
 Barberries, put Sippets in your Dish. 
  
  
 212. _To boil a Pike with Oysters._ 
  
 Take a fair Pike and gut it and wash it, and truss it round with the 
 tail in the mouth, then take white Wine, Water and Salt, with a bundle 
 of sweet herbs, and whole Spice, a little Horse-radish; when it boils, 
 tie up your Pike in a Cloth, and put it in, and let it boil till it 
 swims, for then it is enough; then take the Rivet of the Pike, and a 
 Pint of great Oysters with their Liquor, and some Vinegar, large Mace, 
 gross Pepper, then lay your Pike in a Dish with Sippets, and then heat
216. _To make a Steak-Pie._ 
  
 Cut a Neck of Mutton in steaks, then season it with Pepper and Salt, lay 
 your Paste into your Baking Pan, and lay Butter in the bottom, then lay 
 in your steaks, and a little large Mace, and cover it with Butter, so 
 close it, and bake it; and against it is baked, have in readiness good 
 store of boiled Parslie minced fine, and drained from the water, some 
 white Wine and some Vinegar, sweet Butter and Sugar, cut open your Pie, 
 and put in this Sauce, and shake it well, and serve it to the Table; it 
 is not so good cold as hot. 
  
  
 217. _To rost a Haunch or a Shoulder of Venison, or a Chine of Mutton._ 
  
 Take either of these, and lard it with Lard, and stick it thick with 
 Rosemary, then roft it with a quick fire, but do not lay it too near; 
 baste it with sweet butter: then take half a Pint of Claret wine, a 
 little beaten Cinamon and Ginger, and as much sugar as will sweeten it, 
 five or six whole Cloves, a little grated bread, and when it is boiled 
 enough, put in a little Sweet butter, a little Vinegar, and a very
little Salt, when your meat is rosted, serve it in with Sauce, and strew 
 salt about your Dish. 
  
  
 218. _To rost a Capon with Oysters and Chesnuts._ 
  
 Take some boiled Chesnuts, and take off their shells, and take as many 
 parboil  '  d Oysters, then spit your Capon, and put these into the belly of 
 it, with some sweet Butter, rost it and bast it with sweet Butter, save 
 the Gravie, and some of the Chesnuts, and some of the Oysters, then add 
 to them half a Pint of Claret Wine, and a pice of sweet Butter and a 
 little Pepper, and a little Salt, stew these altogether till the Capon 
 be ready, then serve them in with it; Garnish your Dish as you please. 
  
  
 219. _To rost Shoulder or Fillet of Veal with farcing herbs._ 
  
 Wash your meat and parboil it a little, then take Parsley, 
 Winter-savory, and Thyme, of each a little minced small, put to them the 
 yolks of three or four hard eggs minced, Nutmeg, Pepper and Currans and
Salt, add also some Suet minced small; work all these with the yolk of a 
 raw Egg, and stuff your Meat with it, but save some, and set it under 
 the meat while it doth rost, when your meat is almost rosted enough, put 
 to these in the Dish, a quarter of a pint of White Wine Vinegar, and 
 some Sugar, when your meat is ready, serve it in with this Sauce, and 
 strew on Salt. 
  
  
 220. _To make boiled Sallads._ 
  
 Boil some Carots very tender, and scrape them to pieces like the Pulp of 
 an Apple, season them with Cinamon and Ginger and Sugar, put in Currans, 
 a little Vinegar, and a piece of sweet Butter, stew these in a Dish, and 
 when they begin to dry put in more Butter and a little Salt, so serve 
 them to the Table, thus you may do Lettuce, or Spinage or Beets. 
  
  
 221. _To boil a Shoulder of Veal._ 
  
 Take a Shoulder of Veal and half boil it in Water and Salt, then slice
off the most part of it, and save the Gravie; then take that sliced 
 meat, and put it in a Pot with some of the Broth that boiled it, a 
 little grated Bread, Oister Liquor, Vinegar, Bacon scalded and sliced 
 thin, a Pound of Sausages out of their skins, and rolled in the yolks of 
 Eggs, large Mace and Nutmeg, let these stew about one hour, than put in 
 one Pint of Oisters, some sweet herbs, and a little Salt, stew them 
 together, then take the bone of Veal and broil it and Dish it, then add 
 to your Liquor a little Butter, and some minced Limon with the Rind, a 
 Shelot or two sliced, and pour it over, then lay on it some fryed 
 Oysters; Garnish your Dish with Barberries and sliced Limon, and serve 
 it in. 
  
  
 222. _To boil a Neck of Mutton._ 
  
 Boil it in water and salt, then make sauce for it with Samphire and a 
 little of the Broth, Verjuice, large Mace, Pepper and Onion, the yolks 
 of hard Eggs minced, some sweet herbs and a little salt, let these boil 
 together half an hour or more: 
 
then take some of the Broth, a little Mace, and a Cows Udder boiled 
 tender and sliced thin, a little Horse-radish root searced, and a few 
 sweet herbs; boil all these together, and put in a little Salt, when 
 your Venison is ready, dish it, and lay your Cows Udder and the 
 Coleflowers over it, then beat up your Sauce, and pour over it; then 
 garnish your Dish with Limon and Parsley and Barberries, and so serve 
 it; this Sauce is also good with a powdered Goose boiled, but first 
 larded. 
  
  
 225. _To make white Broth with Meat or without._ 
  
 Take a little Mutton broth, and as much of Sack, and boil it with whole 
 Spice, sweet herbs, Dates sliced, Currans and a little Salt, when it is 
 enough, or very near, strain in some blanched Almonds, then thicken it 
 with the yolks of Eggs beaten, and sweeten it with Sugar, and so serve 
 it in with thin slices of white Bread: 
  
 Garnish with stewed Prunes, and some plumped Raisins. 
 
mixture following, grated bread, sweet herbs minced small, Beef Suet or 
 Marrow minced, Almonds blanched and beated with Rosewater, a little 
 Cream; beaten Spice, and a little Salt, some Eggs and some Currans, mix 
 these together, and do as I have said, then having your Pie ready raised 
 or laid in your baking-pan, put in Butter, and then fill it with Birds. 
  
  
 Then put in Nutmeg, Pepper and Salt, and put in the yolks of hard Eggs, 
 and some sweet herbs minced, then lay in pieces of Marrow, and cover it 
 with Butter, and so close it and bake it; then cut it open and wring in 
 the Juice of an Orange and some Butter, and serve it. 
  
  
 247. _To make a Lettuce Pie._ 
  
 Take your Cabbage Lettuce and cut them in halves, wash them and boil 
 them in water and salt very green, then drain them from the water, so 
 having your Pie in readiness, put in Butter; then put in your boiled 
 Lettuce, with some Marrow, Raisins of the Sun stoned, Dates stoned and 
 sliced thin, with some large Mace, and Nutmeg sliced, then put in more
Butter, close it and bake it; then cut it open, and put in Verjuice, 
 Butter and Sugar, and so serve it. 
  
  
 [Transcriber  '  s note: no number in original] _To stew a Neck of Mutton._ 
  
 Put your Neck of Mutton cut in Steaks into so much Wine and Water as 
 will cover it, with some whole Spice, let it stew till it be enough, 
 then put in two Anchovies, and a handful of Capers, with a piece of 
 sweet Butter shake it very well, and serve it upon Sippets. 
  
  
 248. _To make a Pie of a rosted Kidney of Veal._ 
  
 Mince the Kidney with the Fat, and put to it some sweet herbs minced 
 very small, a quarter of a pound of Dates stoned, and sliced thin and 
 minced, season it with beaten Spice, Sugar and Salt, put in half a pound 
 of Currans, and some grated bread, mingle all these together very well 
 with Verjuice and Eggs, and make them into Balls, so put some Butter 
 into your Pie, and then these Balls, then more Butter, so close it and
Butter, then lay on some large Mace, and some more Butter, and close it 
 and bake it: It is either good hot or cold. 
  
  
 251. _To make a Carp Pie._ 
  
 Take a large Carp and scale him, gut and wash him clean, and dry him 
 well, then lay Butter into your Pie, and fill your Carps belly with this 
 Pudding; grated bread, sweet herbs, and a little Bacon minced small, the 
 yolks of hard Eggs and an Anchovie minced, also a little Marrow, Nutmeg, 
 and then put in a little Salt, but a very little, and make some of this 
 up in Balls, then Lard the Carp, sew up his Belly, and lay him into 
 your Pie, then lay in the Balls of Pudding, with some Oysters, Shrimps 
 and Capers, and the yolks of hard Eggs and a little Slices of Bacon, 
 then put in large Mace and Butter, so close it and bake it, then cut off 
 the Lid, and stick it full of pretty Conceits made in Paste, and serve 
 it in hot. 
  
  
 252. _To make an Almond Tart._
 
 Take a Quart of Cream, and when it boils, put in half a pound of sweet 
 Almonds blanched and beaten with Rosewater, boil them together till it 
 be thick, always stirring it for fear it burn, then when it is cold, put 
 in a little raw Cream, the yolks of twelve Eggs, and some beaten Spice, 
 some Candied Citron Pill and Eringo Roots sliced, with as much fine 
 Sugar as will sweeten it, then fill your Tart and bake it, and stick it 
 with Almonds blanched, and some Citron Pill, and strew on some small 
 French Comfits of several colours, and garnish your Dish with Almonds 
 blanched, and preserved Barberries. 
  
  
 253. _To make a dainty White-Pot._ 
  
 Take a Manchet cut like Lozenges, and scald it in some Cream, then put 
 to it beaten Spice, Eggs, Sugar and a little Salt, then put in Raisins, 
 and Dates stoned, and some Marrow; do not bake it too much for fear it 
 Whey, then strew on some fine Sugar and serve it in. 
  
 
254. _To make a Red Deer Pie._ 
  
 Bone your Venison, and if it be a Side, then skin it, and beat it with 
 an Iron Pestle but not too small, then lay it in Claret wine, and 
 Vinegar, in some close thing two days and nights if it be Winter, else 
 half so long, then drain it and dry it very well, and if lean, lard it 
 with fat Bacon as big as your finger, season it very high with all 
 manner of Spices and Salt, make your Pie with Rye Flower, round and very 
 high, then lay store of Butter in the bottom and Bay Leaves, then lay in 
 your Venison with more Bay leaves and Butter; so close it, and make a 
 Tunnel in the middle, and bake it as long as you do great Loaves, when 
 it is baked, fill it up with melted Butter, and so keep it two or three 
 months, serve it in with the Lid off, and Bay Leaves about the Dish; eat 
 it with mustard and sugar. 
  
  
 255. _To make a Pie of a Leg of Pork._ 
  
 Take a Leg of Pork well powdred and stuffed with all manner of good 
 Herbs, and Pepper, and boil it very tender, then take off the Skin, and
stick it with Cloves and Sage Leaves, then put it into your Pie with 
 Butter top and bottom, close it and bake it, and eat it cold with 
 Mustard and Sugar. 
  
  
 256. _To make a Lamprey Pie._ 
  
 Take your Lamprey and gut him, and take away the black string in the 
 back, wash him very well, and dry him, and season him with Nutmeg, 
 Pepper and Salt, then lay him into your Pie in pieces with Butter in the 
 bottom, and some Shelots and Bay Leaves and more Butter, so close it and 
 bake it, and fill it up with melted Butter, and keep it cold, and serve 
 it in with some Mustard and Sugar. 
  
  
 257. _To make a Salmon Pie._ 
  
 Take a Joll of Salmon raw, and scale it and lay it into your Pie upon 
 Butter and Bay leaves, then season it with whole spice and a little 
 Salt, then lay on some Shrimps and Oysters with some Anchovies, then
more Spice and Butter, so close the lid and bake it, but first put in 
 some White Wine, serve it hot, then if it wants, put in more Wine and 
 Butter. 
  
  
 258. _To make a Pudding of French Barley._ 
  
 Take French Barley tenderly boiled, then take to one Pint of Barley half 
 a Manchet grated, and four Ounces of sweet Almonds blanched and beeten 
 with Rosewater, half a Pint of Cream, and eight Eggs with half the 
 Whites, season it with Nutmeg, Mace, Sugar and Salt, then put in some 
 Fruit, both Raisins and Currans, and some Marrow, mingle these well 
 together, and fill Hogs Guts with it. 
  
  
 259. _To make a hasty Pudding in a Bag or Cloth._ 
  
 Boil a Quart of thick Cream with six spoonfuls of fine Flower, then 
 season it with Nutmeg and Salt, then wet a Cloth, and flower it and 
 butter it, then boil it, and butter it, and serve it in.
Take a _Westphalia_ Gammon, and boil it tender with hay in the Kettle, 
 then take off the Skin and stick it with Cloves and strew it with 
 Pepper, then make your Pie ready, and put it therein with Butter at the 
 bottom, then cover your Bacon with Oysters, parboiled in Wine and their 
 own Liquor, and put in Balls made of Sausage meat, then put in the 
 Liquor of the parboiled Oysters, some whole Spice and Bay Leaves, with 
 some Butter, so close it, and bake it and eat it cold, you may put into 
 it the yolks of hard Eggs if you please, serve it with Mustard Sugar and 
 Bay Leaves. 
  
  
 271. _To bake a Bulloks Cheek to be eaten hot._ 
  
 Take your Cheek and stuff it very well with Parsley and sweet herbs 
 chopped, then put it into a Pot with some Claret wine and a little 
 strong Beer, and some whole Spice, and so season it well with Salt to 
 your taste, and cover your Pot and bake it, then take it out, and pull 
 out the Bones, and serve it upon tosted bread with some of the Liquor. 
  
 
272. _To bake a Bullocks Cheek to eat cold, as Venison._ 
  
 Take a Bullocks Cheek, or rather two fair fat Cheeks, and lay them in 
 water one night, then take out every bone, and stuff it very well with 
 all manner of Spice and Salt, then put it into a Pot, one Cheek clapped 
 close together upon the other, then lay it over with Bay Leaves, and put 
 in a Quart of Claret Wine, so cover the Pot and bake it with Houshold 
 Bread, when you draw it, pour all the Liquor out, and take only the fat 
 of it and some melted Butter, and pour in again, serve it cold with 
 Mustard and Sugar, and dress it with Bay Leaves, it will eat like 
 Venison. 
  
  
 273. _To make a Bacon Froize._ 
  
 Take eight Eggs well beaten, and a little Cream, and a little Flower, 
 and beat them well together to be like other Batter, then fry very thin 
 slices of Bacon, and pour some of this over, then fry it, and turn the 
 other side, and pour more upon that, so fry it and serve it to the 
 Table.
Take a Peck of fine Flower, and three Pounds of fresh Butter, break your 
 Butter into your Flower, and put in one Egg, and make it into a Past 
 with so much cold cream as you think fit, but do not mould it too much, 
 then roul it pretty thin and broad, almost square, then lay some Butter 
 on the bottom, then season your Venison on the fleshy side with Pepper 
 grosly beaten, and Salt mixed, then lay your Venison upon your butter 
 with the seasoned side downward, and then cut the Venison over with your 
 Knife quite cross the Pasty to let the Gravie come out the better in 
 baking, then rub some seasoning in those Cuts, and do not lay any else 
 because it will make it look ill-favoured and black, then put some paste 
 rouled thin about the Meat to keep it in compass, and lay Butter on the 
 top, then close it up and bake it very well, but you must trim it up 
 with several Fancies made in the same Paste, and make also a Tunnel or 
 Vent, and just when you are going to set it into the Oven, put in half a 
 Pint of Clarret Wine, that will season your Venison finely, and make it 
 shall not look or taste greasie, thus you may bake Mutton if you please. 
  
  
 277. _To make a brave Tart of several Sweet Meats._ 
 
other Sweet-Meats, tie your Basket about with several sorts of small 
 Ribbons: Do not take this for a simple Fancy, for I assure you, it is 
 the very same that I taught to a young Gentlewoman to give for a Present 
 to a Person of Quality. 
  
  
  
  
 TO THE READER. 
  
  
 _Courteous Reader, 
  
 I Think it not amiss, since I have given you, as I think, a very full 
 Direction for all kinds of Food both for Nourishment and Pleasure, that 
 I do shew also how to eat them in good order; for there is a Time and 
 Season for all things: Besides, there is not anything well done which 
 hath not a Rule, I shall therefore give you several Bills of Service for 
 Meals according to the Season of the Year, so that you may with ease 
 form up a Dinner in your Mind quickly; afterwards I shall speak of
want, since they have leave to eat and drink: they must wait diligently, 
 and at a distance from the Table, not daring to lean on the Chaires for 
 soiling them, or shewing Rudeness; for to lean on a Chair when they 
 wait, is a particular favour shewn to any superiour Servant, as the 
 Chief Gentleman, or the Waiting Woman when she rises from the Table; 
 they must not hold the Plates before their mouths to be defiled with 
 their Breath, nor touch them on the right side; when the Lord, Master, 
 Lady or Mistress shew that favour to drink to any Inferiour, and do 
 command them to fill for them to pledge them, it is not modesty for them 
 to deny Strangers that favour, as commonly they do, but to fulfill their 
 Commands, or else they dishonour the Favour. 
  
 When any Dish is taken off the Table, they must not set it down for Dogs 
 to eat, nor eat it themselves by the way, but haste into the Kitchin 
 with it to the Cook, that he may see what is to be set away, and what to 
 be kept hot for Servants; when all is taken away, and Thanks given, they 
 must help the Butler out with those things which belong to him, that he 
 may not lose his Dinner. 
  
 They must be careful also to lay the Cloth for themselves, and see that
shall still go on in imparting what I yet have so fast as I can. 
  
 Now to begin with the Ordering those things named to you: 
  
 If it be but a private Dinner or Supper in a Noble House, where they 
 have none to honour above themselves, I presume it may be thus: 
  
 In Summer time, when the Meat is all taken away, you may present your 
 several sorts of Cream Cheeses; One Meal one Dish of Cream of one sort, 
 the next of another; one or two Scollop Dishes with several sorts of 
 Fruit, which if it be small fruit, as Rasps or Strawberries, they must 
 be first washed in Wine in a Dish or Bason, and taken up between two 
 Spoons, that you touch them not. 
  
 With them you may serve three or four small Dishes also with 
 Sweet-meats, such as are most in season, with Vine Leaves and Flowers 
 between the Dishes and the Plates, two wet Sweet-meats, and two dry, two 
 of one colour, and two of another, or all of several colours. 
  
 Also a Dish of Jellies of several colours in one Dish, if such be
required. 
  
 If any be left, you may melt them again, and put them into lesser 
 Glasses, and they will be for another time: 
  
 If any dry ones be left, they are soon put into the Boxes again. 
  
 If any persons come in the afternoon, if no greater, or so great as the 
 Person who entertains them, then you may present one or two Dishes of 
 Cream only, and a whipt Sillibub, or other, with about four Dishes of 
 Sweet-meats served in, in like manner as at Dinner, with Dishes of 
 Fruit, and some kind of Wine of your own making; at Evenings, especially 
 on Fasting Days at Night, it is fit to present some pretty kind of 
 Creams, contrary from those at Dinner, or instead of them some Possets, 
 or other fine Spoon Meats, which may be pleasant to the taste, with 
 some wet and dry Sweet-meats, and some of your fine Drinks, what may be 
 most pleasing. 
  
 At a Feast, you may present these things following. 
 
Sweet-meats, the wet Sweet-meats round about and the dry in the middle, 
 your wet Sweet-meats must be in little glasses that you may set the more 
 on, and between every two glasses another above the first of all, and 
 one on the top of them all; you must put of all sorts of dryed 
 Sweet-meats in the middle Plate, first your biggest and then your 
 lesser, till you can lay no more; then stick them all with Flowers and 
 serve them: And in the Bason of Water you send in to wash the Hands or 
 Fingers of Noble Persons, you must put in some Orange Flower Water, 
 which is very rare and very pleasant. 
  
 In Winter you must alter, as to the season, but serve all in this 
 manner; and then dryed Fruits will also be very acceptable; as dryed 
 Pears and Pippins, Candied Oranges and Limons, Citrons and Eringoes, 
 Blanched Almonds, Prunelles, Figs, Raisins, Pistachoes and Blanched 
 Walnuts. 
  
  
 _FINIS._ 
  
 
