Do not keep familiarity with any buthose, with whom you may improve you time. 
 7. If you are entrusted with any secrets be careful that you reveal them not. 
 8. Be careful that you wast not, or spoi your Ladies, or Mistresses goods, neither si you up junketing a nights, after your Maste and Mistress be abed. 
 Lastly, If you behave your self civilly, a be neat, cleanly, and careful to , yo will be cherished and encoura not onl with good words but good . 
 Thus have I given you s e short dire ctions in general, I shall now give you par∣ticular directions for every employment, from the Waiting Gentlewoman to the Scul∣lery Maid, that so you may be capable of serving in the highest as well as the lowest place. 
 Directions for such as desire to be Waiting Gentlewomen. IF You desire to be a Waiting Gentlewo∣man to a person of honour or quality, you must, 1. Learn to dress well. 2. Preserve well. 3. Write well a legible hand, good lan∣guage and good English. 6. Have some skill in Arithmetick. 7. Carve well. 
 Having learned these, you must remem∣ber to be courteous and modest in your be∣haviour, to all persons according to their degree, humble and submissive to your Lord and Lady, or M s er and Mistress, neat in your habit, loving to Servants, Sober in your countenance and discourse, not using any wanton gesture, which may give Gen∣tlemen any occasion to suspect you of levity; and so court you to debauchery, and by that means lose a reputation irrecovera∣bl I shall now give you some short dire∣ctions, whereby you may learn to preserve, write well, carve well, and have some skill in Arithmetick. 
 Directions for Preserving, Conserving, and Candying. H w to preserve Barberies. Make choice of the largest and fairest bun∣ches, picking off the withered or shrunk Ba beries, and wash them clean, drying them in a clean cloth, after this take a quan∣tity of Barberies, and boyl them in Claret Wine till they be soft, then strain them well thorow a strainer, wringing the juice hard thorow it, boyl this strained Liquor with Sugar till it be thick and very sweet, let it then stand till it be cold, then put your bran∣ches of Barberries into Gally pots, and fill th m up with this Liquor: By this means you will have both the Syrup of Barberies, and their preserves. 
 To Preserve Pears. Take Pears that are sound and newly ga∣thered from the Tree, indifferent ripe, then lay in the bottom of an earthen pot some dried vine leaves, and so make a lay of Pears, and leaves till the pot is filled up, laying be∣twixt each lay some sliced Ginger, then pour in as much old wine as the Pot will hold, laying some heavy thing on the Pears, that the Pot may not swim. 
 To preserve green Pippins. Take half a score green Pippins from the Tree, pare them, and boil them in a Pottle of water till they are like a pulp, strain them from the cores, then ake two pound of Su∣gar, and mingle it with the Liquor or pulp so strained, then set it on the fire, and as soon as it boyleth put in the Pippins you intend to preserve, so let them boil leasurely till they be enough, when they are preserved they will be green. In like sort you may preserve Quinces, Plumbs, Peaches, and Apricocks, if you take them green. 
 To preserve Black Cherries. Take them fresh or as they come from the Tree and out of the Stalk, take one pound of Sugar for two pounds of Cherries, seeth and clarifie them, and when they are half boyl ' d put in your other Cherries, and let them seeth softly together, until the Sugar may be drawn between the fingers like small Threads; when it is almost cold put the Cherries in the Pots with the Stalks downwards. 
 To Preserve Mulb rries. Take Mulberries and add to them their weight in Sugar, having wet your Sugar with some juice of Mulberries, then stir your Su∣gar together and put in your Mulberries, and boyl them till they are enough, then take them out and boyl the Syrup a while, then put in the Mulberries and let them stand till they be cold. 
 To Prese ve Oranges and Lemmons. Take the fairest you can get, and lay them in water three days and three nights, to take a∣way their bitterness, then boyl them in fair water till they be tender, make as much Sy∣rup as will make them swim about the Pan, let them not boyl long, for then the skin will be tough, let them lye all night in the Syrup, that they may soak themselves therein: In the morning boyl the Syrup to a convenient thickness, then with it and the Oranges and Lemmons, fill your Galli∣pots and keep them all the year. In this manner you may preserve Citrons. 
 To Preserve Gooseberries. Let the Gooseberries be gathered with their stalks on, cut off their heads and stone them, then put them in scalding water and let them stand therein a little while, then take their weight of Sugar finely beaten, and lay first a Layer of Sugar then of goose∣berries in your preserving Pot or Skillet, till all be in, put in for every pound of Gooseberries a spoonful of fair water, set them on the Embers till the Sugar be melt∣ed, then boyl them as fast as you can, till the Syrup be thick enough, when cold put them up. In this manner you may preserve Raspices and Mulberries. 
 To Preserve Roses. Take one pound of Roses, three pound of Sugar, one pint and a little more of Rose-water, make your Syrup first, and let it stand till it be cold, then take your Rose leaves having first clip ' d off all the white, put them in the cold Syrup and co∣ver them, let your fire be very soft, that they may only simmer two or three hours, then whilst they are hot, put them out into pots or glasses for your use. 
 To Preserve Cherries. Take Cherries fully ripe and newly ga∣thered, put them to the bottom of the pre∣serving pan, let the Cherries and Sugar be of equal weight, throw some Sugar on the Cherries and set them on a quick fire, and as they boyl throw on the Sugar till the Sy∣rup be thick enough, then take hem out and put them into a G llipot whilst they are warm, it will not be amiss to add two or three Spoon uls of Rose-water to them. 
 To preserve Ripe Apricocks. Let the weigh of your Sugar equal the weight of your Apricocks, what quantity soever you have a mind to use, pare and stone your Apricocks, and lay them in the Sugar in the preserving pan all night, and in the morning set them on the embers all night till the Sugar be melted, and then let them stand and scald an hour, then take them off the fire and let them stand in that Syrup two days, and then boyl them so tly, till they be tender and well coloured, and after that when they are coloured, put them up in glasses or pots, which you please. 
 To Preserve green Walnuts. Take Walnuts and boyl them till the wa∣ter tasts bitter, then take them off and put them in cold water and peel off their rind, and put to them as much Sugar as their weight, and a little more water than will wet the Sugar, set them on a fire, and when they boyl up, take them off, and let them stand two days, then boyl them again once more. 
 To Preserve Eringo Roots. Take Eringo Roots fair and knotty, one pound, and wash them clean, then set them on the fire and boyl them very tender, peel off their outermost skin, but break them not a you pare them, then let them lye a while in cold water, a ter this you must take to every ound of Roots, three qu rte s of a pound of clarified Sugar, and boyl it almost o the height of a Syrrup, and then put in your Roots, but look that they boyl but gently, together, and stir them as little as may be for fear of br aking, when they are cold put them up and keep them. 
 To Preserve Ennula-C mpana Roots. Wash them and scrape them very clean, and cut them thin to the Pith, the length of your lit le finger, and as you cut them, put them in water, and let them lye there thirty days, shifting them twice every day to take away the bitterness: Then weigh them, and to every pound of Roots, add twelve ounces of Sugar clarified first, boyl∣ing he Roots very tender, then put them in∣to the Sugar, and let them boyl upon a gen∣tle fire until they be enough, having stood a good while on the fire, pot them up be∣tween hot and cold.
To make an excellent Plague-water. Take a pound of Rue; Rosemary, Sage, Sorel, Celandine, Mugwort, of the tops of red Brambles, Pimpernel, Wild Dra∣gons, Agrimony, Balm, Angelica of each a pound: Put these together in a pot; then fill it with White Wine above the Herbs, so let it stand four days; then distil it in an A∣lembick for your use. 
 To make an excellent Surfeit-Water. Take Celandine, Rosemary, Rue, Pel∣litory of Spain, Sc bious, Angelica, Pim∣pernel, Wormwood, Mugwort, Betony, Agrimony, Balm, Dragon and Tormen∣til, of each half a pound; shred them ve∣ry small, and put them into a narrow mouth∣ed pot, and put to them five quarts of White Wine; stop it close, and let it stand three days and nights, stirring it morning and eve∣ning; then take the Herbs from the Wine, and distill them in an ordinary Still; and when you have distilled the Herbs, distil the Wine also; wherein is Vertue for a weak Stomach. Take three or four spoonfuls at any time. 
 To make Angelica-Water. Take a handful of Carduus Benedictus, and dry it; then take three ounces of An∣gelica Roots, one dram of Myrrh, half an ounce of Nutmegs, Cinamon, and Ginger, four ounces of each, one dram and an half of Saffron; of Cardonius, Cubebs, Gallin∣gal and Pepper, of each a quarter of an ounce, two drams of Mace, one dram of Grains; of Lignum Al es, Spikenard, Iun∣cus Odora us, of each a dram; Sage, Bou∣rage, Bugloss, Violets and Rosemary flowers, of each half an handful: bruise them, and steep them in a pottle of Sack twelve hours, and distil it as the rest. 
 To make Mint-Water. Take two parts of Mint, and one part of Worm-wood, and two parts of Carduus; put these into as much new Milk as will soak them: Let them infuse five or six hours, then distil it as you do Rose-Water; but you must often take off the head, and stir the Water well with a stick. Drink of this Water a Wine-glass full at a time, sweetned with white Sugar to your taste. 
 To make a very good Cordial-Water: without stilling. Take two quarts of Brandy, and keep it in a great glass with a narrow mouth; put into it of Cloves, Nutmegs, Cinamon, Gin∣ger, Cardamum seeds, Coriander seeds, A∣nis-seeds, Liquorish; of each of these half an ounce bruised; Long Pepper and Grains, of each one dram bruised, Elecampane one quarter of an ounce bruised: Let all these steep in the Brandy a fortnight; then pour it out into a long glass softly, so long as it will run clear: then put more Brandy into the glass where the Ingredients are, and let that stand three weeks; and so long as you find there is any strength in the Ingredients, still put in more Brandy, and let it stand e∣very time longer and longer. Then take your first two quarts of Brandy which you poured of, and put in it four ounces of white Sugar-candy, and so much Syrup of Clove-Gilliflowers as will colour it, with store of Leaf Gold: Give two spoonfuls at a time. It is good in case of any Illness or Swoun∣ing, to drive out any infection and veno∣mous humours. 
 To make Poppy Water. Take of Red Poppies four pound, put to them a quart of White Wine, then distil them in a common Still; then let the distil∣led Water be poured upon fresh flowers, and repeated three times; to which add two Nutmegs sliced, Red Poppy flowers a pugil, White Sugar two ounces: set it to the fire to give it a pleasing sharpness, and order it ac∣cording to your taste. 
 To make Rose-Water. Stamp the Leaves, and first distil the Juice, afterwards distil the leaves; and so you may dispatch more with one Still, than others with three or four; and this Water is every way as Medicinable as the other; ser∣ving well in all Decoctions and Syrups, though it be not altogether so pleasing to the smell. 
 To make Spirit of Roses. Bruise the Rose in his own juice, adding thereto, being temperately warmed, a con∣venient proportion, either of Yeast or Fer∣ment; leave them a few days to ferment, till they get a strong and heady smell near like to Vinegar; then distil them, and draw so long as you find any scent of the Rose to come; then distil again so often, till you have purchased a perfect Spirit of the Rose. You may also ferment the juice of Roses on∣ly, and after distil the same. 
 To make a most Excellent Wa er. Which comforteth the Vital Spirits, and helpeth the inward Diseases which come of Cold, as the Palsie, Contraction of Sin∣news; also it killeth worms, and comforteth the Stomach; it cureth the Dropsie, help∣eth the Stone and Stinking Breath, and maketh one seem young. 
 To make this, take a Gallon of G scoin Wine; Ginger, Galingal, Nutmegs, Gran s, Cloves, Annis-seeds, Fenil-seeds, Carraway-seeds, of each one dram: Then take Sugar, Mint, Red Roses, Tyme, Pellitory, Rose∣mary, Wild Tyme, Cammomile, and La∣vender; then beat the Herbs and Spices small, and put it all together into the Wine, and let it stand so twelve hours, stirring it divers times; then distil it with a Limbick, and keep the first Water, for it is best. Of a gallon of Wine, you must not take above a quart. 
 Directions for the making of some of the choicest Receipts in Physick and Chyrurgery. A Receipt for an Ague. TAke the Root of a blew Lilly, scrape it clean, and slice it, and lay it in soak all night in Ale; and in the morning stamp it, and strain it, and give it the Patient to drink, luke warm, an hour before the fit cometh. 
 To cure a Quartan Ague. Take a white Flint-stone, and let it lie in a quick fire until it be red hot; then take some Small Beer and quench it therein: When the fit is coming let the Diseased drink a good draught thereof, and another in the midst of the fit, let this be done our several days both in the fit, and when the fit is coming. This is accounted an excel∣lent Receipt 
 A very good Receipt to comfort the Stomach. Take two ounces of old Conserve of Red Roses, and of Mithridate two drams; mingle them together, and when you are going to bed, eat thereof the quantity of an Hasle∣nut. This will expel all flatulency, and windiness of the Stomach; drives away raw Humours, and venomous Vapours; helpeth digestion, and dryeth up Rheum, and strengtheneth the Sight and Memory. 
 To cure Corns. Take Beans, and chew them in your mouth, and then tie them fast to your Corns; and it will help. Do this at night. 
 For the Yellow Iaundis: Take a green white Onion, and make a hole where the blade goeth out, to the big∣ness of a Chesnut; then fill the hole with Treacle, being beaten with half an ounce of English Honey, and a little Saffron; and set the honey against the fire, and roast it well, that the Onion do not burn; and when it is roasted, strain it through a cloth, and give the juice thereof to the Sick three days together, and it shall help them. 
 For the Black Iaundies. Take Fenil seed, Sage, Parsly, Grom∣wel, of each a like quantity, and make Pot∣tage thereof with a piece of good Pork, and eat no other meat that day. 
 For Inf ction of the Plague. Take a spoonful of Running Water, a good quantity of Treacle, to the bigness of an Hasle-nut: Temper all these together, and heat it luke-warm, and drink it every four and twenty hours. 
 For all Feavers or Agues in Sucking Children. Take Powder of Crystal, and steep it in Wine, and give it the Nurse to drink; also take the Root of Devil ' s Bit, with the Herb, and hang it about the Child ' s neck. 
 For the Head-ach. Take Rose-cakes and stamp them very small in a Morter, with a little Ale, and let them be dryed by the fire on a Pot-sheard, and lay it to the nape of the Neck to Bed∣ward. 
 An excellent Dyet Drink for the Spring, to purge and cleanse the Blood. Take o Scurvygrass half a peck, brook-lime, Watercresses, Agrimony, Maiden-hair, Liverwort, Burrage, Bugloss, Betony, Sage, sweet-Marjarum, Sea-worm wood, tops of green Hops, Fumitory, of each a good handful, of Ivory, Hartshorn, and yellow Saunders of each one ounce, Red∣dock roots two ounces, Purslain, Fennel, As∣paragus roots, of each an ounce, Raisins half a pound, boyl these very well in a Gallon of Beer, then stamp and strain them, and put into it three Gallons of new Beer to work together.
To Wash the Face. There i no better thing to wash the face with, to keep it smooth and to scowr it clean, than to wash it every Night with brandy, wherein you have steeped a little flower of Brimstone, and the next day wipe it only with a cloth. 
 To make a Salve for the Lips. Take two ounces of white Bees wax, and slice it thin, then melt it over the fire, with two ounces or more of Sallet Oyl, and a little white sugar candy, and when you see it is well incorporated, take it off the fire and let it stand till it be cold, then set the skillet on the fire again, till the bottom is warm and so turn it out, anoint your lips, or sore nose or sore nipples with this, and it will heal them. 
 To keep the Teeth clean and sound. Take common white salt one ounce, as much cuttle bone, beat them together and rub your Teeth with them every morning, and then wash them wi h fair water. 
 To make the Hands White and Soft. Take Daffadil in clean water till it grow thick, and put thereto powder of Cantari∣um and stir them together, then put there∣to two eggs, and stir them well together, and with this ointment anoint your hands, and within three or four days using there∣of, they will be white, clear, and soft. 
 To Smooth the Skin, and take away Morphew and Freckles. Anoint your face with the blood of a Hare or Bull, and this will take away mor∣phew and freckles and smooth the skin. 
 Directions for making of Custards, Cheesecakes, Raising of Paste, and making of Tarts end Pyes. To make Custards. Take a quart of Cream and boyl it well with whole spice, then beat the yolks of ten eggs and five whites, mingle them with a little cream, and when your cream is al∣most cold, put your eggs into it and stir them very well, then sweeten it, and put out your Custard into a deep dish all toge her, or else into several small China cups or dishes, like Coffee dishes and bake them, then if you please you may serve them in with French Comfits strowd on them or without. 
 To make Cheesecakes. Take two Gallons of new milk, put in∣to it two spoonfuls and a half of Runnet, heat the milk little less than blood warm, and cover it close with a cloth till you see the Cheese be gathered, then with a scum∣ming dish gently take out the whey, when you have drained the curd as clean as you can, put it into a Sieve, and let it drain very well there, then to two quarts of Curds take a quart of thick Cream, a pound of sweet butter, twelve eggs, a pound and an half of Currants, a penny worth of Cloves, Nut∣meg and mace beaten, half a pound of good Sugar, a quarter of a pint of Rosewater, mingle it well together, and put it into Puff-paste. 
 How to make Puff-paste. Break two eggs in three pints of flower, make it with cold water, then roul it out pretty thick and square, then take so much butter as paste, and divide your butter in∣to five pieces, that you may lay it on at five several times, roul your paste very broad, and break one part of the said butter in lit∣tle pieces all over your paste, then throw a handful of flower slightly on, then fold up your paste and beat it with a rowling pin, and so roul it out again, thus do five times and then make it up. 
 How to make Paste for all manner of Tarts and Pyes. Take very sweet butter and put it into fair water, and make it boyl on the fire, then take the finest flower you can get, and mix them well together till it come to a paste, and so raise it, but if you doubt it will not be thick enough, then you may mix some yolks of eggs with it, as you temper all your stuff together. 
 To make an Almond Tart. Raise an excellent good paste with six corners an inch deep, then take some blanch∣ed Almonds very finely beaten with Rose∣water, take a pound of Sugar to a pound of Almonds, some grated Nutmeg, a little Cream and strained Spinage, as much as will cover he Almonds, green, so bake it with a gentle heat in an oven not shutting the door, draw it and stick it with Candied Orange, Citron, and put in red and whi e Muscadine. 
 To make a Cowslip Tart. Take the blossoms of a gallon of Cow∣slips, mince them exceeding small and heat them in a morter, put to t em a handful or wo of grated Naples bisquet, and a pint and a half of Cream, boyl them a little on the fire then take them off, and beat in eight eggs with a little Cream, if it doth not thicken, put it on the fire till it doth gently, but take heed it curdles not, season it with Sugar, Rosewater, and a little Salt, bake it in a dish or little open tarts, it is b st to let your cream be cold before you stir in the Eggs. 
 To make an Artichoke Pye. Take the Bottom of six Artichokes, and boyl them very ender, put them in a dish and some vinegar over them, season them with Ginger and Sugar, a little Mace whole and put them in a Coffin of Paste, when you lay them in, lay some marrow and dates sliced, and a few Raisins of the Sun in the bottom with good store of Butter, when it is half baked take a Gil of Sack being boyl ' d first with the Sugar and a peel of Orange, put it into the Pye and set it into the Oven again till you use it. 
 To m ke Marrow Pasties. Shred the Marrow and Apples together; and put a little Sugar to them, put them in∣to puff-paste, and fry them in a pan with fresh butter, and serve them up to the Ta∣ble, with a little white Sugar strowed on them. 
 To make a Calves foot Pye. Boyl your Calves feet very well, and then pick all the meat from the Bones, when it is cold, shred it as small as you can, and sea∣son it with Cloves and mace, and put in good store of Currants, Raisins and Prunes, then put it into the Coffin with good store of sweet Butter, then break in a whole stick of Cinamon and a Nutmeg sliced, and season it with salt, then close up the Coffin and only leave a vent hole, put insome liquor made of Verjuice, Cinnamon and Butter boyled to∣gether, and so serve it. 
 To make an Eel Pye with Oysters. Wash your Eels and gut them, and dry them well in a cloth, to four good Eels al∣low a pint of good Oysters well washed, season them with pepper, salt, and nutmeg and large Mace, put half a pound of butter into the Pye, and half a Lemon sliced, so bake it, when it is drawn, take the yolks of two eggs, a couple of Anchovies dissolved in a little whitewine, with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, melt it and mix all together aud make a leer of it, and put it into the Pye. 
 To make a Lamb Pye. First cut your Lamb into pieces, and then season it with nutmegs, cloves, and mace, and some salt with currants, raisins of the Sun, and sweet butter. If you would eat it hot, when it is baked put in some yolks of Eggs, with wine vinegar and Sugar beat∣en together, but if you will eat it cold put in no eggs but only vinegar and Sugar. 
 To make an Egg Pye, or a Minced Pye of Eggs. Take the yolks of two dozen of Eggs hard boyl ' d and shred them, take the same quan∣ ity of Beef suet, half a pound of Raisins, a pound of Currants well washed and dryed, half a pound of Sugar, a pennyworth of beaten spice, a few carraway seeds, a lit∣tle candied Orange peel shred, a little ver∣juice and Rose-water, fill the Coffin and bake it with a gentle heat. 
 To make a Herring Pye. Put great store of sliced Onions, with Currants and Raisins of the Sun, both a∣bove and under the Herrings, and store of butter, put them into your Pye and bake them. 
 To make a Quince Pye. Take a Gallon of flower, a pound and a half of Butter, six eggs, thirty Quinces, three pound of Sugar, half an ounce of Cin∣namon, the like of Cloves, the like of gin∣ger, a little Rosewater, Make them up into a Tart, and being baked strow on th m a lit∣tle double refined Sugar. 
 To make an Humble Pye. Lay beef suet minced on the bottom of the Pye, or slices of interlarded bacon, and cut the humbles as big as small dice, cut your bacon in the same form, and season it with Nutmeg, Pepper and salt, fill your Pyes with it with slic s of bacon and butter, close it up and bake it, liquor it with Claret, Butter and stript time, and so serve it up.
To make a Venison Pasty. When you have powdered your haunch of Venison or the sides of it, by taking a∣way all the bones, sinews, and skin and at, season it with pepper and salt only, beat it with your rowling pin, and propor∣tion it for the pasty, by taking a way from one part and adding to another, your paste being made with a peck of fine flower, and three pound of butter aud twelve eggs, work it up with cold water as stiff a pa e as you can, drive it orth or your Pasty, let it be as thick as a mans Thumb, rowl it up upon a rowling pin, and put under it a couple of sheets of Cap paper, then your white be∣ing already minced and beaten with water, proportion it upon the pasty, to the bredth and length of the Venison, then lay your Venison in the said white, wash it round with a feather and put on a border, season your Venison on the top, and turn over your other leaf of paste, so close up your pasty, hen drive out another border for garnish∣ing the sides up to the top of the Pasty, so close it together by the rowling pin, by rowling it up and down by the sides and ends, and when you have flourished your garnishing and edged your pas y, vent it at the top, set it in the Oven and let it have four or five hours baking at the least, and then draw it. 
 To make a Beef Pasty like Red Deer. Take fresh Beef of the finest without si∣news or suet, and mince it as small as you can, and season it with salt and pepper, and put in two spoonfuls of Malmsie, then take Lard and cut it into small pieces, and lay a layer of Lard and a layer of Beef, and lay a shin of Beef upon it like Venison, and so close it up. 
 To make an Oister Pye. First dry your Oisters, and then put them into your Coffin, with some butter and whole large mace and then bake it, then take off the Lid and fill it up with more but∣ter, putting some of the Liquor of the Oi∣sters also thereunto, hen season it well with Sugar and serve it up. 
 To make a Goose Pye. Break the bones of your Goose, then per∣boyl him, then season him with pepper and salt, and a little cloves and m ce, if you please you may bake a Rabbet or two in it, because your stubble Geese are very fat and your Rabbets d y, you need not Lard either, bake it in good hot butter paste. 
 To make a Veal Pye. When your paste is raised cut your Leg o Veal into pieces, and season it with pepper, nu meg and salt, with some whole large mace, and so lay it into your prepared cof∣fin, with good store of raisins of the Sun and Curran s, and fill it up with sweet butter, then close it and set it in the Oven, and when baked serve it in. 
 To make an Eel Pye. Wash, flea and cut your Eels in pieces, put to them a handful of sweet herbs, parsly minced with an Onion, season them with pepper, salt, cloves, mace and nutmeg; and having your Coffin made of good paste, put them in and strew over them two hand∣fuls of Currants, and Lemon cut in slices, hen put on butter and close he Pye, when it is baked put in at the funnel a little sweet butter, whitewine and vinegar, beat up with a couple of yolks of eggs. 
 To make a Warden or Pear Pye. Bake your Wardens or Pears in an Oven with a little water, and a good quantity of Sugar, let your pot be covered with a piece of dough, let them not be fully baked by a quarter of an hour, when they are cold make an high Coffin, and put them in whole, ad∣ding to them some Cloves, whole Cinamon, and Sugar with some of the Liquor in the pot, so bake th m. 
 To make a Codling Tart. Take green Codlings from the Tree, and codle them in scalding water without break∣ing them, peel the skin from them, and so d vide them into halves, and cut out the cores, and lay them into the Co fin, then put in a good handful of Quinces sliced, a little oringado, and a good quantity of su∣gar, a little Rosewater, then close it up and bake it well. 
 To make a Gooseberry Tart. When your Gooseberries are picked and washed, then boyl them in wat r till they will break in a spoon, then strain them and beat h lf a dosen Eggs, and stir them toge∣ther upon a chafing dish of Coals with some Rosewater, then sweeten it very well with Sugar, and always serve it cold. 
 To make an excellent Minc ' d Pye. Perboyl Neats Tongues, then peel and hash them with as much as they weigh of beef suet, and stoned raisins and picked cur∣rants, chop all exceeding small that it be like pap, then mingle a very little Sugar with them, and a little wine and thrust it up, and throw in some thin slices of can∣died Citron peel, and put this into Coffins of fine light well reared crust, half an hours baking will be enough. If you strew a few carraway comfits on the top it will not be amiss. 
 To make a Pidgeon Pye. Truss your pidgeons to bake, and set them, and Lard one half of them with bacon, mince a sew sweet herbs and parsly with a little suet, the yolks of hard eggs and an o∣nion or two, season it with salt, beaten pep∣per, cloves, mace, nutmegs, work it up with a piece of butter, and stuff the bellies of the pidgeons, season them with salt and pepper as before, take also as many Lamb-stones seasoned as before, with six collops of bacon the salt drawn out, then make a large Coffin and put in your Pidgeons, and you will, put in Lamb-stones and sweet-breads and some Ar ichoke bottoms or other dry meat to soak up the juice, because the Pye will be very sweet and full of t, then when it comes out of the Oven, put in a lit∣ le Whitewine beat up with the yolk of an egg. 
 To make a Pippin Tart or Pye. Pare your Pippins and cut out the cores, then make your Coffin of good crust, take a good handful of Quinces sliced, and lay at the bottom, then lay your Pippins a top, and fill the holes where the cores were ta∣ken out with syrup os Quinces, then put in Sugar and so close it up, let it be very well baked, for it will ask much soaking, especi∣ally the Quinces. 
 Directions for making of Spoon Meat, as Caudles, Broths, and Iellies. TAke a Pint and a half of the strongest Ale may be gotten, twenty Jordan Almonds clean wiped, but neither washed nor blanched, with two dates minced very small and stamped, then take the pith of young beef the length of twelve inches, lay it in water till the blood be out of it, then strip the skin of it and stamp it with the al∣monds and dates, then strain them all toge∣ther into the Ale, boyl it till it be a little thick, give it the party in a morning fast∣ing to drink six spoonfuls, and as much when they go to bed. 
 To make an Almond Caudle. Take three pints of Ale and boyl it with cloves and mace, and slice bread in it, then have ready beaten a pound of Almonds blanched, and strain them out with a pint of Whitewine, and thicken the Ale with it, sweeten it if you please, but be sure to scum it well when it boyls. 
 To make a Cordi l strengthening broth. Take a Red Cock, strip off the feathers from the skin, then break the bones to shi∣vers with a rowling pin, set it over the fire and just cover it with water, put in some salt and wash the scumming and boyling off it. Put in a handful of hartshorn, a quar∣ter of a pound of blew currants, and as ma∣ny raisins of the Sun stoned, and as many Prunes, four blades of large Mace, a bottom crust of whiteloaf, half an ounce of China root sliced, being steeped three hours before in warm water, boyl in it three or four pie∣ces of gold, strain it and put in a little fine Sugar, and juice of Orange, and so use it. 
 To make China Broth. Take an ounce of China root clipp ' d thin, and steep it in three pints of water all night, or embers covered, the next day take a good Chicken clean picked, and the guts taken out, put in his belly Agrimony and M iden-hair, of each half a handful, raisins of the Sun stoned one good handful, and as much French barley, boyl all these in a Pipkin close covered on a gentle fire, for six or seven hours, let it stand till it be cold, strain it and keep it for your use, take a good draught in the morning, and at four in the after∣noon. 
 To make a Flummery Ca dle. When Flummery is made and cold, you may make a pleasant and wholesome Caudle with it, by taking some lumps and spoonfuls of it and boyl it with Ale and Whitewine, then sweeten it to your taste with Sugar, there will remain in the Caudle some Lumps of congealed flummery, which are not un∣grateful. 
 To make Ielly of Hartshorn. Take four ounces of the shaving of Harts∣horn of the inside, and two quarts of water, put this into a P pkin and boyl it very gent∣ly till it come to a quart, the hartshorn must be steeped three or four hours first, after∣wards put a little into a sawcer till it be cold, and if it be cold and jellyeth it is boyled e∣nough, then being warm take it off the fire and strain it hard thorow a cloth, and set it a cooling till it be a hard Jelly, then take two whites of eggs and beat them very well, with a sprig of Rosemary or Birch, but not with a spoon, till a water come at the bottom then put these beaten eggs and the water thereof in o a skillet, and all the jelly upon it, with three spoonfuls of damask Rose∣water, and quarter of a pound of Sugar, and when it boyls stir and layth it pretty well, then strain it thorow a cloth and let it cool, and of this take four spoonfuls in a morning fasting, and at four a clock in he af ernoon, and this is very good for the weakness in the back. 
 To make a Cock broth, very good for weak people. Take a good Cock, pluck, draw, and wash him very well, and bruise his Legs, boyl him in a little water and salt very well for one hour, then add some water where∣in Mutton hath been boyled, and put in a quarter of a pound of French Barley or Rice which you please, with some Time, Winter Savory, and a little Lemon peel, a little Large Mace and sliced Nutmeg with a clove or two, when it is clean scum ' d let it only stew till it be enough, then take up the Cock for a while and boyl the broth very well, then put him in again, and heat him thorow∣ly, then serve him into the Table, and Garnish your d sh with Lemon and Bar∣berries. 
 To make White Broth of Chicken or Capon. First boyl the Capon or Chicken in water and salt, then take three pints of strong broth and a quart of Whitewine, and stew it in a Pipkin with a quarter of a pound of Dates, half a pound of fine Sugar, four or five blades of large mace, the marrow of three marrow bones, a handful of white endive, s ew these in a Pipkin very leisurely, that it may but only simper, then being finely stew∣ed and the broth well tasted, strain the yolks of Ten eggs with some of the broth, before you dish up the Capons or Chickens, put the eggs into the broth and keep it stirring that it may not curdle, give it a warm and set it from the fire, the Fowls being dished up, put on the broth, and garnish the meat with dates, marrow, large mace, endive, pre∣served barberries, oranges, boyled skerrets, pomegranates and kernels, make a leaf of Almond paste and Grape verjuice.
Directions for making of Pickles and Sawces. How to Pickle Broom buds. TAke as many Broom buds as you please, make Linnen bags and put them in and tye them close, then make some brine wit water and salt and boyl it a little, let it be cold, then put some brine in a deep earthen pot, and put some bags in them and lay the weight on them, let it lye there till it look black, and shift it again s ill as long as it looks black, boyl them in a little Caldron and put them in vinegar a week or two, and they will be fit to eat. 
 To Pickle Cucumbers. Wash your Cucumbers clean, and dry them in a cloth, then take some water, vinegar, salt, fennel tops and some dill tops and a lit∣tle mace, make it salt enough and sharp e∣nough to the taste, then boyl it a while, and then take it off and let it stand till it be cold then put in the Cucumbers, and lay a board on the top to keep them down, and tye them up close, and within a week they will be fit to eat. 
 To Pickle Artichoke Bottoms. Take the best bottoms of Artichokes and parboyl them, and when they are cold and well drained from the wa r, and dryed in a cloth to take away all the moisture, then put them into pots, and pour your brine on them, which must be as strong as you can make it, which is done by putting in so much salt to it, as it will receive no more, so that the salt sinks whole to the bottom, cover o∣ver your Artichokes with this water, and pour upon it some sweet butter melted, to the thickness of two fingers, that no Air may come in, when your Butter is cold set up your Pot in some warm place, cover it close from Vermin, before you put the bot∣toms in the Pot, you should pull off all the Leaves and choak, as they are served at Ta∣ble, the best time to do this is in Autumn, when your Plants produce those which are young and tender, for these you should pickle before they come to open and flower, but not before the heads are round, when you would eat them you must lay them in water, shifting the water several times, then boyl them once again and so serve them. 
 To Pickle Cornelians. Gather the fairest and biggest Cornelians when they first begin to grow red, and after they have lain a while put them up in a Pot or Barrel, filling them up with brine as for Artichokes, and put to them a little green Fennel, and a few Bay Leaves to make them smell w ll, then stop them up very close, and let them stand for a Month, if you find them too salt, make the Pickle weaker before you serve them to Table. 
 To Pickle Red and White Currants. Take Vinegar and Whitewine with so much Sugar as will make it sweet, then take your red and white currants being not fully ripe, and give them one walm, so cover them over in the same pickle, keeping them always under Liquor. 
 To Pickle Artichokes. Take Artichokes before they are too fully grown or two full of strings, and when they are pared round, then nothing is left but the Bottom, boyl them till they be indifferent tender, but not full boyled, take them up and let them be cold, then take good stale Beer and Whitewine, with a great quantity of whole Pepper, so put them up in a barrel with a small quantity of salt, keep them close and it will not be sowr, it will serve for ba∣ked and boyled meats all the Winter. 
 To Pickle Flowers of all Sorts. Put them into a Gallipot or Glass with as much Sugar as they weigh, fill them up with Wine-Vinegar, to a Pint of Vinegar a pound of Sugar and a pound of flowers, so keep them for Sallads and boyl ' d Meats. 
 To Pickle Oisters. Take eight quarts of Oisters and Parboyl them in their own Liquor, then take them out and cleanse them in warm water; then wipe them dry, then take the Liquor they were parboyl ' d in, and clear it from the grounds into a large Pipkin or Skillet, put to it a Pottle of good Whitewine, a quart of Wine Vinegar, some Large Mace, whole Pepper and a good quantity of Salt, set it o∣ver the fire and boyl it leisurely, scum it clean, and being well Boyled put the Liquor into Barrels, and when it is cold put in the Oysters and close up the head. 
 Directions for making os Sawces. To make Sawce for Green Geese. TAke the juice o Sorrel mixed with scald∣ed Gooseberries, and served on sippets with Sugar and Beaten Butter, &amp;c. 
 To make Sawce for Land Fowl. Take boyled prunes and strain them with the Blood of the Fowl, cinamon, ginger, and Sugar, boyl it to an indifferent thickness, and serve it in Sawcers, and serve in the dish with the Fowl, Gravy, and sawce of the same Fowl. 
 To make Divers Sawces for Roast Mutton. 1. Take Gravy, Capers, Samphire, and Salt, and stew them well together. 
 2. Water, Onion, Claret Wine, sliced Nutmeg, and Gravy boyled up. 
 3. Whole Onions stewed in strong broth, or Gravy, Whitewine, Pepper, pickled Ca∣pers, Mace, and three or four slices of a Lemon. 
 4. Mince a little roast Mutton hot from the Spit, and add to it some chop ' d parsley and Onions, Verjuice or Vinegar, Ginger and pepper, stew it very tender in a pipkin, and serve it under any Joynt with some gravy of the Mutton. 
 5. Onions, Claret Liquor, Capers, Claret Gravy, Nutmeg and salt boyl ' d together. 
 6. Chop ' d Parsley, Verjuice, Butter, Sugar and Gravy boyled together. 
 7. Take Vinegar, Butter, and Currants, put them in a Pipkin with sweet herbs fine∣ly minced, the yolks of two hard eggs, and wo or three slices of the brownest of the Leg (mince it also) some Cinnamon, Gin∣ger, Sugar and salt. 
 8. Pickled Capers and Gravy, or Gravy nd Samphire, cut an inch long. 
 9. Chop ' d Parsly and Vinegar. 
 10. Salt, Pepper, and juice of O∣ nges.
11. Strained Prunes, Wine, and Sugar. 
 12. Whitewine, Gravy, Large Mace, nd Butter thickned w th two or three olks of Eggs. 
 13. Oister Liquor and Gravy boyled to∣ ether, with eggs and verjuice to thicken t, then juice of Oranges and slices of Le∣mons over all. 
 14. Onions chop ' d with sweet herbs, vi∣ egar and salt boyled together. 
 To make Several Sawces for Roast Veal. 1. Gravy, Claret, Nutmeg, Vinegar, Butter, Sugar, and Oranges, melted to∣gether. 
 2. Juice of Orange, Gravy, Nutmeg, and sliced Lemon on it. 
 3. Vinegar and Butter. 
 4. All manner of sweet herbs chop ' d small, with the yolks of two or three eggs, and boyl them in Vinegar, Butter, and a few Bread crumbs, Currants, beaten Cin∣namon, Sugar, and a whole Clove or two, put it unde the Veal, with slices of Orange and Lemon about the dish. 
 5. Claret, Sawce of Boyled Carrots and boyled Quinces, stamped and strained with Lemon, Nutmeg, Pepper, Rose Vinegar, Sugar and Verjuice, boyled to an indifferent height or thickness, with a few whole Cloves. 
 To make Sawces for Red Deer. 1. The Gravy and sweet herbs chop '  small and boyled together, or the Grav only. 
 2. The Juice of Oranges and Lemons an Gravy. 
 3. A Gallendine sawce made with strain∣ed Bread, Vinegar, Claret Wine, Cinna∣mon, Ginger and Sugar, strain it and be ng finely beaten with the spices, boyl it u with a few whole Cloves and a spri o Rosemary. 
 4. White Bread boyled in water, pretty thick without spices, and put to it some but∣ter, Vinegar and Sugar. 
 If you will stuff or farce any Venison, stick them with Rosemary, Time, Savoury, or Cloves, or else with all manner of sweet herbs minced with Beef suet. 
 To make Sawces for Roast Pork. 1. Gravy, chop ' d Sage, and Onions boyl∣ed together with some Pepper. 
 2. Mustard, Vinegar and Pepper. 
 3. Apples pared, quartered, and boyled in fair water, with some Sugar and Butter. 
 4. Gravy, Onions, Vinegar and Pepper. 
 To make Sawces for Rabbets. 1. Beaten Butter, and rub the dish with a Clove of Garlick or Shelot. 
 2. Sage and Parsly minced, roul it in a ball with some Butter, and fill the belly with this stuffing.
3. Beaten Butter with slices of Orange or Lemon, or the Juice of them, or Grape Verjuice and Nutmeg. 
 4. Gravy of the Salmon, two or three Cloves dissolved in it, grated Nu meg and grated Bread, beat up thick with Butter, the yolk of an Egg, or slices of Orange wi h the juice of it. 
 I should give you now some directions for dressing of Flesh and Fish, but you will find that more properly set down, in my directions to Cook-Maids 
 Directions for such who desire to be Nursery-Maids to Person of Honour or Quality, or else to Gentlewomen either in City or Country. IF you intend to fit your self for this em∣ployment, you must naturally encline your self to love young Children, o∣therwise you will soon discover your unfit∣ness to manage that charge, you must be very neat and cleanly about them, and care∣ful to keep good hours for them, both to a∣ ise and go to bed, likewise to get their Breakfasts and Suppers at good and conve∣nient time. Let them not sit too long but walk them often up and down, especially those who cannot go well of themselves, you must also be extraordinary careful and vigilant, tha they get not any falls through your neglect, or by such falls, many (the cause at first being unperceivable) have grown irrecoverably Lame or Crooked. Therefore i any such thing should happen, be sure you conceal it not, but acquaint your Lord or Lady, Master or Mistress thereof, with all convenient speed, that so means may be used for the Childs recovery before it be too late, you must be extraordinary careful that you be not churlish or dogged to the Children, but be always merry and pleasant, and contrive and invent pretty sports and pastimes, as will be most uitable and agreeable to the Childrens Age, keep their Linnen and other things always men∣ded, and suffer them not to run too fast to decay. 
 Do not let the Children see that you love any one child above the other, for that will be a means of dejecting and casting down the other. 
 Be careful to hear them read if it be im∣posed upon you, and be not too hasty with them, have a special care how you behave your sel before them, neither speak∣ing nor acting mis-becomingly, lest your bad example prove the subject of their imitation. 
 Consider the cha ge you ake in hand, and do not desire this employment as too many do, because it is an easie kind os Life, and void of labour and pains taking, thinking also that children are easily pleased with a∣ny thing, you will find the contrary, and that it is a troublesome employment, and the charge of a greater weight, than such vainly imagine. 
 Directions for such as desire to be Cook-Maids, in Noble, or Gentlemens Fa∣milies. IF you would fit your self for this em∣ployment, and so consequently gain great wages, good Vales, and the re∣putation of an accomplished Cook, 
 You must learn to be skilful in dr ssing all sorts of Flesh, Fowl, and Fish, to make va∣riety of sawces proper for each of them, to raise all manner of Pastes and Kickshaws, to be curious in garnishing your dishes, and making all manner of Pickles, &amp;c. 
 And as you must now how to dress Meat well, so must you know how to save what is left of that you have dress d, of which you may make both handsome and Toothsome dishes again, to the saving of your Masters purse, and credit of his Table. 
 You must be sure to be as saving as you can, and cleanly about every thing, seeing likewise that your Kitchin be kept clean, and all things scowred in due time, your Larders also and Cupboards, that there be no bits of bread and Meat lye about them to spoyl and stink. 
 You must be careful that your Meat taint not, for want of good salting. You must also keep good hours for your Meals, other∣wise you put an house quite out of order, do not covet to have the Kitching stuff for your Vales, but rather ask the more wages, for that may make you an ill Huswife of your Masters goods, and teach you to be a Thief, for you would be apt to put that which should go in to the tryed Suet, into your Pot. 
 Lay not all your wages upon your back, but lay up something against sickness, and an hundred other casualties, for you may assure your self it is more commendable, for one in your employment to go decent and clean, than gaudishly fine. 
 I have already in this Book, in my di∣rections to Chamber-Maids, given some directions for Raising of Paste, for making of Sawces and Pickles. 
 I shall now give you some directions for the best and newest way of dressing of Flesh Fowl and Fish. 
 Directions for dressing of Flesh, Fowl and Fish. First, For Dressing of Flesh. To Boyl a Leg of Veal and Bacon. LArd your Leg of Veal with Bacon all over, with a little Lemon peel among it, then boyl it with a middle piece of B ∣con, when your Bacon is boyled, cut it in pieces, season it with pepper and dried sage mix ' d together, dish up the Veal with the Bacon round about it, send it up with saw∣cers of green sawce, strew over it Parsly and Barberries. 
 To m ke a Fri asie of Veal. Cut your Veal in thin slices, beat it well with a rowling pin, season it well with Nutmegs, Lemon and Thyme, fry it slight∣ly in the Pan, then beat two eggs and one spoonful of Verjuice, put it into the pan, stir it together, fry it and dish it. 
 To Roast a Haunch of Venison. If your Venison be seasoned, you must wa∣ter it, and stick it with short sprigs of Rose∣mary, let your sawce be Claret Wine, a handful of grated Bread, Cinnamon, Gin∣ger, Sugar, a little Vinegar, boyl these up so thick as it may only run like Butter, it ought to be sharp and sweet, dish up your meat on your sawce. 
 To Stew a Leg of Lamb. Cut it in pieces, and put it into your stewing pan, being first seasoned with salt and Nutmeg, and as much Butter as will stew it, with raisins of the Sun, Currants and Gooseberries; when it is stewed make a caudle with the yolks of two or three eggs, and some Wine Vinegar and sugar beaten together, and put it into your Meat and stew-all a little longer together, then dish it, strew sugar on the top and serve it up hot. 
 To make Sco ch Colo s of Veal Cut out your Veal into very broad slices at and lean, not too thick, take eight eggs beat them very well with a little salt, grate a whole Nutmeg, take a handful of Thyme and strip it, then take a pound of Sawsages half a pint of stewing Oysters, wash and cleanse them from the Gravel, then half ry your Veal with sweet Butter, then put in your sawsages and oysters, then take a quar∣ter of a pound of Capers, shred them very small with three Anchovies dissolved in Whitewine and fair water, so put in your Eggs, shred Capers and Anchovies, Butter and Spice, and mingle them, and strew them in the Pan upon t e Veal and Oysters, serve it with sipits with a little fresh Butter and Vinegar and Lemon sliced, and Barberries with a little salt. You must have a care to keep the Meat s irring, lest the Eggs curdle with the heat of the fire.
To Boyl a Chine, Rump, Surloin, Brisket, Rib, Flank, Buttock, or Fillet of Beef. Take any of these pieces of Beef, and give them in summer a Weeks powdering, in winter a Fortnights, you may either stuff them or not, if you stuff them you must do it with all manner of sweet herbs, and fa Beef minced very small, and some Nutmeg mingled together, you may serve them in on bruess, with roots or cabbage boyled in milk, with beaten butter. 
 To Roast a Shoulder of Mutton with Oysters. Parboyl your Oysters, then mix Winter savory, thyme, parsly and the yolks of five or six hard eggs, and to these a hal -penny loaf of grated Bread, and three or four yolks of eggs, mingle all these together with your hands, when you have spi ted your Mutton, make holes in it as big as you think conve∣nient, put in your Oysters with your other ingredients, about twenty five or thirty Oi∣sters will be enough, let it roast indifferent long, and take the remainder of a quart of Oysters, and put them into a deep dish with with Claret Wine, put to them two or three Onions cut in halves with two or three An∣chovies, put this into the dripping pan under your Mutton and save your Gravy, and when the meat is enough, put your sawce up∣on the Coals, and put in it the yolk of an egg beaten, grated Nutmeg and sweet Butter, dish your mutton and pour in your Oysters, sawce and all upon it, garnishing your dish with Lemons and Barberries. 
 To Stew a Rump of Beef. Season your Beef with some Nutmeg gra∣ted, together with some salt and p pper, season it on the bony side and lay it in the Pipkin with the fat side downwards, then take two or three great Onions and a bunch of Rosemary tyed up together, also three pints of Elder Vinegar and three pints of water, stew all these together in a Pipkin close covered over a so t fire three or four hours together, dish it upon sipits, taking off the fat from the Gravy: put some of the Gravy to the Beef and serve it up. 
 To Stew a Breast, Loyn, or Neck of Mutton. Joynt either of these very well, draw it and stuff it with sweet herbs and parsly min∣ced, then put it in a deep stewing dish with the right side downward, put to it so much Whitewine and strong broth as will stew it, set it on the Coals and put to it two or three Onions, a bundle of sweet herbs and a littl large Mace, when it is almost stewed take handful of Spinage, Parsly and Endive, an put into it, or else some Gooseberries an Grapes, and in the winter time Samphir and Capers, you may add them at any time dish up your Mutton and put by the Liquo you do not use, and thicken the other with yolks of Eggs and sweet butter, put on the sawce and herbs over the meat, garnish your dish with Lemon and Barberries. 
 To Farce, or S uff a Fillet of Veal. Take a large Leg of Veal and cut off a couple of Fillets from it, then mince a hand∣full of sweet-herbs and parsly, and the yolks of two or three hard eggs, let all these be minc ' d very small, then season it with a cou∣ple of grated Nutmegs and a little salt, and so arce or stuff your Veal, hen lard it with bacon and thyme very well, then let it be roasted, and when it is almost enough, take some of your stuffing and as many curran s, about a handful, and put these to a little strong broth, a glass of Claret and a little vi∣negar: a little sugar and some mace, when your meat is almost ready, take it up and put it into this and let it stew, putting to it a little Butter melted, put your meat in your dish and pour your sawce on it, and serve it up. 
 To Dress a Leg of Mutton, a Savoury Dish. Boyl your Mutton in water and salt for the space of an hour, then cut it into thin sli∣ces and put it into a dish over a chafing dish of Coals without any liquor, and in a little time you will find the Gravy will be liquor enough, then put in a little salt and a little grated Nutmeg, one Onion or two or three Shelots sliced, a sprig of Thyme and Win∣ter Savory, let it stew between dishes till it be almost enough, then put in a piece o fresh Butter, and when it hath stewed a lit∣tle longer, take it up and serve it in, gar∣nish your Dish with pickled Barberries and pickled Oisters. 
 To Boyl a Fore-Loin of Pork, with good Sawce to it. Let your Pork be reasonably well salted and boyl it very well, then have in readi∣ness a good quantity of Sorrel stript from the stalks, and beaten in a morter as fine as possible you can, then put in a few crumbs of Bread, the yolks of hard eggs with a lit∣tle Mustard and Salt; and so serve in your Pork with this sawce, and garnish your Dish with Parsly, or any other green Leaves. 
 Directions for Dressing of Fowl. How to Roast a Hen or Pullet. Take a Pullet or Hen full of eggs, draw it and roast it, being roasted break it up and mince the Braun in thin slices, save the Wings whole or not mince the Brauns and save the Rump with the Legs whole, stew all in the Gravy and a little salt, then have a minced Lemon and put it in the gra∣vy, dish the minced Meat in the midst of the dish, and the Thighs, Wings, and Rumps abou it, garnish the dish with O∣range and Lemon quartered, and serve them up covered. 
 To Roast Wood ocks the English way. First pull and draw them, then being washed and trussed Roast them, baste them with Butter and save the Gravy, then make Tosts and Butter them, being roasted bread them with grated bread and Flower, and serve them on a clean dish, on the Tost and Gravy. 
 To Roast Woodcocks the French Way. Being new and fresh killed that day you use them, pull, truss, and lard them with a broad piece o lard or bacon pricked over the Brest, being roasted serve them on broil∣ed Tosts, put in Verjuice or the juice of O∣range with the Gravy, and warmed on a fire. 
 To Roast a Pig the Plain way. Take a Pig, scald and draw it, wash it clear and put some sage in the Belly, prick it up and spit it, being roasted fine and crisp make sawce with chop ' d sage and currants, well boyled in vinegar and fair water, then put to them the Gravy of the Pig, a little grated Bread, the Brains and some Barber∣ries, give these a walm or two and serve the Pig on the sawce with a little beaten Butter. 
 To Roast a Pig otherways. Take a Pig, scald and draw it, then mince some sweet herbs either sage or Penni-royal, and roul it up in a ball with some Butter, prick it up in the Pigs belly and roast him, being ro ted make s wce with Butter, Vi∣negar, the Brains and some Barb rri s. 
 To Roast a H re. Take a Hare, flea it, set it, and lard it with small lard, stick it with Cloves and make a pudding in his Belly with grated Bread, grated Nutmeg and beaten Cinna∣mon, Salt, Currants, Eggs, Cream and Sugar, make it good and stiff, fill the Hare and roast it. If you would have the pud∣ding green, put to it juice of Spinage; If yellow, Saffron: Make for Sawce beaten Ginger, Nutmeg, Cinnamon, Pepper, boyled Prunes and Currants strained, bisket Bread beaten into powder, Sugar and Cloves, all boyled up as thick as Water-Grewel. 
 Land, or Sea Fowl, How to Boil them. HAlf roast your Fowls, sticking on them some Cloves as they roast, save the Gravy, and when they are half roasted put them in a Pipkin with the Gravy, some Claret wine, as much strong Broth as will cover them, Mace, Cloves, Pepper, Gin∣ger, some fryed Onions and Salt, stew all well together, and serve them on carved ippets. 
 How to Boyl Plovers, Quails, Blackbirds, Rails, Thrushes, Snipes, Wheat ears, Larks and Sparrows. Take them and truss them, or cut off the heads and legs and boyl them, scum your Pipkin aud put therein large Mace, White∣wine, Currants well picked and washed, D tes, M rrow, Pepper and Salt, being well stewed, dish them on carved Sippets, thicken the Broth with strained Almonds, Rose-water and Sugar, garnish them with Lemon, Barberries, and grated bread. 
 To Boyl Capons, Pullets, Chickens, Pid∣geons, Pheasants, Par ridges. Farce them either with the bone or bon ' d, then take off the skin whole, with the neck, wings and legs on, mince the body with some bacon or beef suet, season it with some Nutmeg, Pepper, Cloves, beaten Ginger, Salt, and a few sweet herbs finely m nced, and mingled amongst some three or four yolks of eggs, some Sugar, whole Grapes, Gooseberries, B rberries and Pistaches, fill the skins and prick them up in the back, then stew them between two dishes with some strong broth, Whitewine, Butter, some large Mace, Marrow, Gooseberries and sweet herbs, being stewed serve them on s pets with some Marrow and sliced Lemon, in Winter Currants. 
 To Boyl C p ns or C ckens, with S e . First boyl them in water and salt, then boyl some parsly, sage, two or three hard eggs, chop them, then have a few thin sli∣ces of fine manchet and stew all together, but break not the slices of Bread, stew them with some of the broth wherein the Chick∣ ns boyls, some large mace, butter, a little whitewine or vinegar, with a few barber∣ries or grapes, dish up the Capons or Chickens on the sawce, and run hem over with sweet Butter and Lemon cut like dice, the peel cut like small Lard, and boyl a little peel with the Chickens. 
 To Boyl any large Water Fowl, as Swan, Whopper, Wild or Tame Geese, Crane, Hern, Duck, Mall rd, &amp;c. Take a Goose and salt it two or three days, then truss it to boyl, cut lard as big as your little finger and lard the brest, season the lard with pepper, mace and salt, then boyl it in Beef broth or water and salt, put to it pepper grosly beaten, a handful or two of Bayleaves, Thyme and Rosemary bound up very well, boyl them very well with the Fowl, then prepare some cabbage boyled very well with water and salt, squeeze out the water from it and put it into a pipkin with some strong broth, Claret wine, and a good big Onion or two, season it with pepper, mace and salt, and two or three Anchovies dissolved, stew these together with a Ladle full of sweet Butter and a little Vinegar, and when your Goose is boyled enough, and your Cabbage on sippets, lay on the Goose with some Cabbage on the brest and serve it up. Thus you may dress any large wild Fowl. 
 To Boyl Pidgeons. Take Pidgeons being finely cleans ' d and trussed, put them in a Pipkin or Skillet with some Mutton broth or fair water, set them a boyling and scum them clean, then put to them large Mace or well washed Currants, some strained bread strained with Vinegar and Broth, put it to the Pidgeons with some sweet butter and capers, boyl hem very white, and being boyled serve them on fine carv ' d sippets in the broth with some Sugar, garnish them with Lemon, fine Sugar, Mace, Grapes, Gooseberries and Barberries, and run them over with beaten Butter, garnish the dish with grated manchet. 
 To Stew Pidgeons in the French Fashion. Take Pidgeons ready pulled and scalded, take the flesh out of the skin, and leave the skin whole, with the legs and wings hanging to it, mince the bodies with some lard or beef suet together very small, then put to them some sweet herbs finely minced, and season all with cloves, mace, ginger, pep∣per, some grated bread or parmison grated and yolks of eggs, fill again the skins and prick them up on the back, then put them in a dish with some strong broth and sweet herbs chop ' d, large mace, gooseberries, barberries or grapes, then have some cab∣bage le tice boyled in water and salt, put to them butter and serve them up on fine sippets.
How to Pot up Fowl for to carry to Sea, or otherwise to be spent at home. Take a good company of Ducks or Mal∣lards, pull them and draw them, and lay them in a tub with a little pepper and salt for twenty four hours, then truss them and roast them, and when they are roasted let them drain from their gravy, for that will make them corrupt, then put them hand∣somly into a pot, and take the fat which came from them in the roasting and good store of Butter, and melt them together in a pot set in a kettle of boyling water, put there∣in good store of cloves bruised a little, some sliced mace, nu meg, bayleaves and salt, and let them stew in the butter a while, then while it is hot pour it over your Fowls in the pot, and let the pot be filled so that the Fowls be covered, then lay a Trencher up∣on them, and keep them down with a weight or stone until they be cold, then take of the same kind of spice which you did put into your butter, beat it very fine and strew over it, and lay some bayleaves on the top so cover it up, they will keep a good while, drain your Fowl from the gravy, twenty four hours before you put them into your pot. 
 Directions for Dressing of Fish. How to Stew a Ca p. DRess the Carp and take out the milt, put it in a dish with the Carp, take out the Gall then save the blood, and scotch with your Knife the back of the Carp if the Carp be large, take a quart of Claret or Whitewine, four or five blades of large mace, ten cloves, two large races of ginger sliced, two sliced nutmegs, with the tops of thyme, marjoram, savory, and parsly chop ' d very small, four great Onions whole, three or four bayleaves and some salt, stew them all together with the Wine, when the Li∣quor boyls put in the Carp, with a quarter of a pound of Sweet Butter, being stewed enough take a large dish, and laying he Carp therein, pour the sawce thereon with the spices, lay on sliced Lemon with some of the peel cut small, and run it over with beaten Butter, garnish the dish with m n∣chet grated and searced, and carved sipets laid round the dish, you may or variety, the Carp being scaled, garnish the body with stewed Oisters, some fryed in white butter, some in green made by the juice of spinage. 
 How to Roast a Carp. Take a live Carp draw and wash it, ta∣king away the gall, milt or spawn, then make a pudding with some grated manchet some Almond paste, cream, currants, gra∣ted nutmeg, raw yolks of eggs, sugar, car∣raway seed candied, some salt and lemon, make a stiff pudding, and put it thorow the Gills into the belly of the Carp, then spit it, and when it is roasted make sawce with the Gravy that falls from it, with juice of orange, sugar and cinnamon, beat up the sawce thick with the Butter, and di h it up. 
 To Stew Oysters. Take a pot le o large Oysters, parboyl them in their own liquor, then wash them from the dregs in warm water, and put them in a pipkin with a good big Onion or two, and five or six blades of large mace, a little whole pepper, a sliced nutmeg, a quarter of a pint of whitewine, as much wine vinegar, a quarter of a pound of sweet butter with a little salt, stew them toge∣ther on a soft fire the space of half an hour, then dish them on sipets of french bread, sliced lemon and barberries on that, then run them over with beaten butter, and gar∣nish the dish with grated manchet. 
 To Fry Oysters. Strain the liquor from them, and parboyl them in a Kettle, then dry and rowl them in flower or make a bitter o eggs, flower, a little Cream and salt, dip them therein and fry them in butter beating it up thick, having warmed the dish rub it with some garlick and lay thereon the Oysters, gar∣nishing the dish with sliees of Orange. 
 To Boyl a Pike. Take your Pike and wash it clean, then truss it whole round with the tale in his mouth, and his back scotched or cut in three places, then boyl it in water, salt and vi∣negar, put not the Pike in till the liquor boyls, and then make it boyl apace, and that will crisp your Pike, but afterwards softly; The Pike being boyled dish it, and garnish the dish with grated white bread, or ginger fine beaten, then beat up the sawce with half a pound of butter, minced Le∣mon or Orange, and pour it on the Pike wi h sipets. 
 To make the sawce, you must put into a pipkin a pint of whitewine, sliced ginger, mace, dates quartered, a pint of large Oy∣sters with their liquor, a little vinegar and salt, boyl them a qua ter of an hour, then mince a few sweet-herbs and pa sly, stew them till half the Liquor be consumed. 
 To Stew a Pike. Take a Pike, flat it and lay it in a dish, when the blood is clean washed out, put to it as much whitewine as will cover it, and set it a stewing, when it boyls put in the Fish and scum it, and put to i some large mace, whole cinnamon and some salt, when tho∣rowly s ewed, dish it on sipets finely c r∣ e . 
 To Boyl S lmon. Take as much water as will cover your Sal∣mon, then take rosemary, thyme, winter savory and salt, boyl all these very well to∣gether, then put in some wine vinear, and when your Salmon is boyled, let him remain in the same water always until you have oc∣casion to eat of it. 
 To Roast Salmon. Take a Rand or Jole, cut it into four pie∣ces and season it with a little nutmeg and salt, stick a few cloves and put it on a small spit, put between it some bayleaves, and stick it wi h little sprigs of Rosemary, roast it and baste it with Butter, save the gravy, and add to i for sawce some vinegar, but∣ter, and slices of Orange. 
 To Fry Salmon. Take a Jole, Chine or Rand, and fry it in clarified butter, being stiff and crisp fryed, make sawce with a little Claret wine, sweet butter, grated nutmeg, slices of Orange, and Oyster liquor, stew them all together and pour on the sawce, and on that Par∣sly, Alisaunder and Sage leaves fryed in butter. 
 Thus have I given you some short dire∣ctions, for dressing of Flesh, Fowl and Fish. I shall now give you directions for making bills of fare both first and second course, for every month in the year, and so conclude my directions to Cook-maid . 
 A BILL OF FARE FOR Every Month in the Year. Ianuary. 1. BRawn and Mustard. 
 2. Two boyled Capons aud White Broth. 
 3. A Turkey Roasted. 
 4. A Shoulder of Mutton hash ' d. 
 5. Two Geese boyled. 
 6. A Goose roasted. 
 7. Ribs or Surloin of Beef. 
 8. Minc ' d Pyes.
That you provide your winter Butter and Cheese in summer, as in May: And when your Rowings come in, be sparing of your fire and do not lavish away your Milk, But∣ter, or Cheese. 
 If you have any Fowls to fat, look to them that it may be for your credit and not your shame, when they are brought to Table. 
 When you milk the Cattel, stroke them well, and in the summer time save those strokings by themselves, to put into your Morning milk Cheese. 
 I look upon it to be altogether needless, for to give you any directions for the ma∣king of Butter or Cheese, since there are very few, (especially in the Country) that can be ignorant thereof: I shall only say, that the best time to pot up Butter for win∣ter, is in the month of M y, for then the Air is most temperate, and the Butter will take Salt best. How ver it may be done at any time betwixt May and September. 
 I shall now give you some few directions for made Cream, and for Milk made bet∣ter by art, and so conclude my directions to Dairy-Maids. 
 How to make your ordinary Clouted Cream. Take a quantity of milk from the Cow, and put into a broad earthen pan, and set it over a very slow fire, letting it stand there from morning to night, suffering it not by any means to boyl, then take it off the fire and set it in some place all night to cool, in the morning dish off your Cream, for it will be very thick. 
 To make Fresh Cheese and Cream. Take a Pottle of new milk as it cometh from the Cow, and half a pound of blanch ' d Almonds beaten very small, and make a thick Almond milk with a pint of Cream strained, and a little before you go to din∣ner make it blood warm, and season it with a little Sugar, Rose-water, and ierced Ginger, and put to it a little Runner, and when it is scum ' d bread it up and whey it, and put it into a mould and press it with your hand, aud when it is well wheyed, put it into a dish with Cream. 
 To make a Cream of Codlings. After you have scalded your Codlings and peel ' d of the skins, and scraped the pulps from the cores with a little Sugar and Rose∣water, strain them, and lay the pulp of your Codlings in a dish, with as much Cream as you please about them. 
 To make a Iunket. Take Ewes or Goats milk, if you have neither of these then take Cows milk, and put it over the fire to warm, then put in a little Runnet to it, then pour it out into a dish and let it cool, then strew on cinnamon and sugar, then take some Cream and lay upon it, scraping Sugar thereon serve it up. 
 To make Rasbery Cream. When you have boyled your Cream take two ladlefulls of it being almost cold, bruise the Rasberrries together with it, and season it with sugar and rose-water, and put it in∣to your Cream stirring it all together, and so dish it up. 
 To make S ow Cream. Break the whites of six Eggs, put thereto a little Rose-water, beat them very well to∣gether with a bunch of Feathers till they come perfectly to resemble snow, then lay on the said snow in heaps upon other cream, that is cold which is made fit for the Table, you may put under your Cream in the bot∣tom of your dish, part of a penny Loaf, and stick therein a branch of Rosemary and Bays and fill your Tree with the said snow, so serve it up. 
 To make a Syllabub. Take a pint of Verjuice in a bowl, milk the Cow to the Verjuice, then take off the curd, and take sweet Cream and beat them together with a little Sack and Sugar, put it into your Syllabub pot, strew Sugar on it and serve it up. 
 To make a Whipt Syllabub. Take the whites of two Eggs and a pint of Cream, with six spoonfuls of Sack and as much sugar as will sweeten it, then take a birchen rod and whip it, as it riseth in froth scum it, and put it into the Syllabub pot, and so continue it with whipping and scumming till your syllabub Pot be full. 
 To make an Excellent Cream. Take a Quart of Cream and set it a boyl∣ing with a large mace or two, whilst it is boyling cut some thick sippets, and lay them in a very fine clean dish, then have seven or eight yolks of Eggs strained with Rose-wa∣ter, put some sugar to them, then take the Cream from the fire, put in the Eggs and stir all together, then pour on the slices of fine manchet, and being cold scrape on su∣gar and serve it. 
 Directions for such who in∣tend to be Laundry-Maids in Great Houses. IF you would have the esteem credit and reputation of a compleat Laundry-Maid, you must observe these follow∣ing directions. 
 First, You must take care of all the Linen in the house (except Points and Laces) and whatever you wash do it quickly and do not let it lye and stink and grow yellow, and so create to your self the trouble of wash∣ing it again before it be used. 
 Secondly, You must take care that all the bracks and rents in the Linen be duly mended. 
 Thirdly, Keep your certain days for washing of your Linen, and other days for washing of such Rooms as are appointed you to wash and keep clean. 
 Fourthly, You must be sparing and not lavish and wastful of your sope, fire and candle. 
 Fifthly, Entertain no Chairwomen un∣known to your Lady or Mistress:
Sixthly, Be careful that your Tubs and Copper, or whatever else you make use of be kept clean, and in good repair. 
 Seventhly, You must be careful that you rise early every morning, but more especi∣ally on washing days. 
 Directions for House-Maids in Great Houses. 1. YOur principal Office is to make clean the greatest part of the House, and see that you suff r no Room to lye foul. 
 2. That you look well to all the stuff, as Hangings, Chairs, Stools, &amp;c. And ee that they be often brushed and the Beds fre∣quently turn ' d. 
 3. That you do not misplace any thing by carrying it out of one Room to another, for that is the way to have them lost, or you soundly chid for not keeping them in their proper places. 
 4. That you be careful and diligent to all strangers, and see that they lack nothing in their Chambers, which your Mistress or Lady will allow, and that your close stools and Chamber pots be duely emptied, and kept clean and sweet. 
 5. That you help the Laundry-Maid in a morning on the washing day. 
 6. That in the afternoon you b ready to help the Waiting-woman or House-keeper in their preserving and distilling. 
 Directions for Scullery maids in Great Houses. 1. YOu must be careful to keep sweet and clean, the several Rooms which belongs to your charge, as the Kitchin, Pantry, Wash house, &amp;c. 
 2. You must wash and scowr all the plates and dishes that are used in the kit∣chin, likewise the dressers and cupboards, also all kettles, pots, pans, chamberpots, with all other iron, brass, tin, and pew∣ter materials, that belong to the Chambers and Kitchin. 
 3. You must wash your own Linen, keep∣ing your self sweet and clean, remembring always, so soon as you have made an end of your dirty work, to wash and dress your self neatly, titely and cleanly. 
 Now if you be careful and diligent, and cleanly in performing this place, you will have notice taken of you, and you will be advanced to a higher and more profitable employment. 
 FINIS. 

