To preserve GOLDEN or KENTISH-PIPPINS. 
  
 Boil the Rind of an Orange very tender, and let it lye in Water two or three Days; then make a strong Jelly with Pippins, and run it through a Jelly-bag. Take Golden-Pippins, pare them, and scoop out all the Coar at the Stalk End: To twelve Pippins put two Pound of Sugar and three Quarters of a Pint of Water, boil the Sugar and skim it; put in the Pippins and the Orange-Rind cut into thin Slices; let them boil as fast as they can  ' till the Sugar is very thick, and almost a Candy; then put in a Pint of the Pippin-Jelly, and boil them very fast  ' till they jelly very well; then put in the Juice of a Lemmon, give it one Boil, and put them in Pots or Glasses, with the Orange mix ' d with them. The Kentish Pippins are better in Quarters than whole. 
  
 To preserve WHOLE ORANGES or LEMMONS. 
  
 Rasp them very thin, just the Outside Rind off; lay them in Water twenty four Hours; then set them on the Fire with a good Quantity of Water; let them boil  ' till they are very tender; then put them in cold Water again, and let them lye two Days; the Lemmons need not lye but one Day; then, to four Oranges or Lemmons put two Pound of fine Sugar and a Pint of Water; boil and skim it, and when it is cold, put in the Oranges or Lemmons, and let them lye four or five Days in cold Syrup; then boil them  ' till they are clear; set them by in an Earthen Pan a Day or two more; then boil them again, and put them in Jelly, thus: Take Pippin-Jelly, and to a Pint put a Pound of fine Sugar; boil it  ' till the Jelly is very strong; then heat your Oranges, and put them to the Jelly, with half their Syrup; boil them very fast a Quarter of an Hour; when you take them off the Fire, put in the Juice of two or three Lemmons; put them in Pots that will hold the Jelly: To four Oranges you may put one Pint and a Half of Jelly, and one Pound and a Half of Sugar. Lemmons must be done by themselves. Sevil Oranges and Malaga Lemmons are best. 
  
 To dry ORANGES in KNOTS, or LEMMONS. 
  
 Rasp the Oranges or Lemmons with a sharp Knife, as thin and as small as you can, and break the Rasping as little as you can, that the Outside Rind may make but two or three Knots; then cut the Oranges, and pick out all the Meat; and the white Rind makes another Sort of Knots: Let both the Rinds lye two Days in a Sieve, or broad Pan, before you boil them, or they will break; then put them in cold Water, and boil them about an Hour; let them drain well from the Water, and clarify as much single-refin ' d Sugar as will cover them very well; when the Syrup is cold put them in, and let them stand four or five Days; dry them out as you use them; and when you take any out to dry, boil them which you leave in the Syrup. They must be candy ' d out thus: Take as many as you desire to dry; the white Halves must be cut in Rings, or Quarters, as you like them; then take as much clarify ' d Sugar as will cover them; boil them very fast a great while,  ' till the Sugar shall blow, which you may see, if you put in a Ladle with Holes, and blow thro ' , you will see the Sugar fly from the Ladle; then take it off, and rub the Candy against the Pan Sides, and round the Bottom,  ' till the Sugar looks Oily; then put them out on a Sieve, to let the Sugar run from them; and as quick as possible lay them in Knots on another Sieve; set them in a Stove, they will be dry in an Hour or two: If you do but a few at a Time, the Syrup you put to them at first will do them out. Whole Oranges or Lemmons are done the fame Way, only boil the whole after they are rasp ' d, and cut a Hole at the Top, and pick out all the Meat after they are boil ' d, and before they are put in the Syrup; and when they are laid on a Sieve to dry, put the Piece in again. 
  
 To make CHINA CHIPS. 
  
 Cut the Rind of China Oranges in long Chips, but very thin, and with none of the White; boil them in Water  ' till they are very tender; then drain them, and put them into a very thick cold Syrup of clarify ' d Sugar; let them lye a Day or two; then scald them, and when they are cold lay them to dry on Earthen Plates in a Stove. 
  
 Sevil Oranges will do the same Way, if you like them with a little Sugar, and very bitter. 
  
 To make ORANGE-PASTE.
Take about half a Pound of fine Sugar, sifted thro '  an Hair Sieve, wet it more than for a Candy, with Orange-Flower-Water, for the Orange-Flower-Cakes, and fair Water for the other Cakes; boil it almost to Candy Height, and then put in the Leaves of the Flowers; boil them a little in the Candy, or it will be too thin; then put it in Card-Coffins. 
  
 To make ICE ALMOND-CAKES. 
  
 Beat a Pound of Almonds very fine, with Rose-Water, to keep them from Oiling; mix them with half a Pound of sifted Sugar, make them up into little long or round Cakes, which you like best; put them in a Stove or before a Fire,  ' till they are dry on one Side, and then turn them; and when they are dry on both Sides, take very fine Sugar sifted; to a Pound take as much White of Eggs as will just wet it; beat it with a Spoon, and as it grows white put in a little more Egg,  ' till it is thin enough to ice the Cakes; then ice first one Side, and when that is dry before the Fire, ice the other: Be sure one Side is dry before you do the other. 
  
 To make BEAN ' D-BREAD. 
  
 Blanch half a Pound of Almonds, slice them thin the long Way, lay them in Rose-Water all Night; then drain them from the Water, and set them by the Fire, stirring them  ' till they are a little dry and very hot; then put to them fine Sugar sifted, enough to hang about them. (They must not be so wet as to make the Sugar like Paste; nor so dry, but that the Sugar may hang together.) Then lay them in Lumps on Wafer-Paper, and set them on Papers in an Oven, after Puffs, or any very cool Oven that Pies have been baked in. 
  
 To make ORANGE or LEMMON-PUFFS. 
  
 Take a Pound of fine sifted Sugar, and grate the Outside Rind of two large Oranges or Lemmons; put the Rind to the Sugar, and beat them well together in a Mortar; grind it well with a Pestle, and make it up to a stiff Paste with Gum-Dragon well steep ' d; then beat the Paste again, rowl or square it, and bake it in a cool Oven, on Papers and Tin-Plates. 
  
 To make ALMOND-PASTE, either BITTER or SWEET: The BITTER are RATAFEA. 
  
 Blanch and beat a Pound of Almonds; put in just Rose-Water enough to keep them from Oiling; then take a Pound of fine Sugar, and boil it to a Candy; and when it is almost at a Candy Height, put in the Almonds; stir them over a cool Fire  ' till it is a very dry stiff Paste, and almost cold, and set it by  ' till it is quite cold; then beat it well in a Mortar, and put to it a Pound and a Half of fine sifted Sugar; rub it very well together, and make it up with a Spoonful of well-steep ' d Gum-Dragon and Whites of Eggs, whip ' d to a Froth; then squirt it, and bake it in a cool Oven; put into the Sweet-Almonds the Rind of a Lemmon grated, but none in the Bitter: If you don ' t make the first Paste stiff, they will run about the Oven. Bake them on Papers and Tin-Plates. 
  
 To make LITTLE ROUND RATAFEA-PUFFS.
Take half a Pound of Kernels, or Bitter-Almonds, beat very stiff, and a Pound and a Half of sifted Sugar; make it up to a stiff Paste with White of Eggs whip ' d to a Froth; beat it well in a Mortar, and make it up in little Loaves; then bake them in a very cool Oven, on Paper and Tin-Plates. 
  
 To make BROWN-WAFERS. 
  
 Take half a Pint of Milk and half a Pint of Cream, and put to it half a Pound of brown Sugar; melt and strain it thro '  a Sieve; take as much fine Flower as will make one half of the Milk and Cream very stiff, then put in the other Half; stir it all the while, that it may not be in Lumps; then put in two Eggs well beaten, a little Sack, some Mace shred fine, two or three Cloves beaten: Bake in Irons. 
  
 To make ALMOND-LOAVES. 
  
 Beat a Pound of Almonds very fine, mix them well with three Quarters of a Pound of sifted Sugar, set them over the Fire, keep them stirring  ' till they are stiff, and put in the Rind of a Lemmon grated; make them up in little Loaves, shake them very well in the Whites of Eggs beat to a very stiff Froth, that the Egg may hang about them; then put them in a Pan with about a Pound of fine sifted Sugar, shake them  ' till they are well cover ' d with the Sugar; divide them if they stick together, and add more Sugar,  ' till they begin to be smooth, and dry; and when you put them on Papers to bake, shake them in a Pan that is just wet with White of Eggs, to make them have a Gloss: Bake them after Biscuit, on Papers and Tin-Plates. 
  
 To make CHOCOLATE-PUFFS. 
  
 Take a Pound of fine sifted Sugar, and three Ounces of Chocolate grated, and sifted thro '  an Hair Sieve; make it up to a Paste with White of Eggs whip ' d to a Froth; then beat it well in a Mortar, and make it up in Loaves, or any Fashion you please. Bake it in a cool Oven, on Papers and Tin-Plates. 
  
 To make RATAFEA-DROPS, either of APRICOCK-KERNELS, or half BITTER, and half SWEET-ALMONDS. 
  
 Take a Pound of Kernels or Almonds beat very fine with Rose-Water; take a Pound of sifted Sugar and the Whites of five Eggs beat to a Froth, mix them well together, and set them on a slow Fire; keep them stirring,  ' till they begin to be stiff; when they are quite cold, make them in little round Drops: Bake them after the long Biscuit, on Paper and Tin-Plates. 
  
 To make all Sorts of SUGAR-PUFFS.
Take two Trays, keep them boiling hot; and, when you bring your Milk, put it in the scalding-hot Tray, and cover it with the other hot Tray; and the next Day you will find a very thick Cream. This must be done the Night before you use it. 
  
 To make SPANISH-BUTTER. 
  
 Take two Gallons of Milk, boil it, and, whilst boiling, put in a Quart of Cream; let it boil after the Cream is in; set it in two broad Pans or Trays, and let it stand two or three Days; then take the Cream from the Milk into a Silver Pan or wooden Bowl; put to it a Spoonful of Orange-Flower-Water, with a perfum ' d Pastel or two melted in it; and sweeten it a little with sifted Sugar: Then beat it with a Silver Ladle or a wooden Beater,  ' till it is stiff enough to lye as high as you wou ' d have it: Be sure to beat it all one Way, and not change your Hand. 
  
 To make ORANGE-BUTTER. 
  
 Take the Rind of two or three Oranges, and boil them very tender; then beat them very fine in a Mortar, and rub them thro '  an Hair Sieve; then take a Quart of Cream, boil it, and put in the Yolks of ten Eggs, and the Whites of two; beat the Eggs very well before you put them to the boiling Cream; stir it all one Way,  ' till it is a Curd; then whey it in a Strainer; when it is cold, mix in as much of the Orange as you think will make it taste as you wou ' d have it; then sweeten it as you like it. 
  
 To make ALMOND-BUTTER. 
  
 Take a Pint of Milk, and about twelve large Laurel Leaves, break the Leaves in three or four Pieces; boil them in the Milk  ' till it is half wasted; then put in a Quart of Cream, boil it with the Leaves and Milk; then strain it, and set it on the Fire again; when it boils, put in the Yolks of twelve Eggs, and the Whites of three, beating the Eggs very well; stir this  ' till it is a Curd; put in about Half a Pint of Milk, let it have a boil, then whey it in a Strainer. When it is cold, sweeten it. This tastes as well as that which has Almonds in it. 
  
 To make TROUT-CREAM. 
  
 Have three or four long Baskets made like a Fish; then take a Quart of new Milk and a Pint of Cream, sweeten it, and put in a little Orange-Flower-Water; make it as warm as Milk from the Cow; put in a Spoonful of Runnet, stir it, and cover it close; and when it comes like a Cheese, wet the Baskets, and set them hollow; lay the Cheese into them without breaking the Curd; as it wheys and sinks, fill them up  ' till all is in. When you send it up, turn the Baskets on the Plates, and give it a Knock with your Hand, they will come out like a Fish: Whip Cream and lay about them. They will look well in any little Basket that is shallow, if you have no long ones. 
  
 To make ALMOND-CREAM.
Take a Quarter of a Pound of Almonds, blanch and beat them very fine, put them to a Pint of Cream, boil the Almonds and Cream, then sweeten it, and put it in the Whites of two Eggs well-beaten; set it on the Fire till it just boils and grow thick. 
  
 To make RAW-ALMOND, or RATAFEA-CREAM. 
  
 Take a Quarter of a Pound of bitter or sweet Almonds, which you like best, blanch and beat them very fine, mix them with a Quart of Cream and the Juice of three or four Lemmons; sweeten it as you like it, and whip it in a Tray with a Whisk; as the Froth rises, put it in a Hair Sieve to grow stiff; then fill your Bason or Glasses. 
  
 To make CHOCOLATE-CREAM. 
  
 Take a Quarter of a Pound of Chocolate, breaking it into a Quarter of a Pint of boiling Water; mill it and boil it,  ' till all the Chocolate is dissolv ' d; then put to it a Pint of Cream and two Eggs well-beaten; let it boil, milling it all the while; when it is cold, mill it again, that it may go up with a Froth. 
  
 To make SEGO-CREAM. 
  
 Take two Spoonfuls of Sego, boil it in two Waters, straining the Water from it; then put to it half a Pint of Milk, boil it  ' till  ' tis very tender, and the Milk wasted; then put to it a Pint of Cream, a Blade of Mace, a little Piece of Lemmon-Peel, and two Eggs, (the White of but one) sweeten and boil it  ' till it is thick. 
  
 To Ice CREAM. 
  
 Take Tin Ice-Pots, fill them with any Sort of Cream you like, either plain or sweeten ' d, or Fruit in it; shut your Pots very close; to six Pots you must allow eighteen or twenty Pound of Ice, breaking the Ice very small; there will be some great Pieces, which lay at the Bottom and Top: You must have a Pail, and lay some Straw at the Bottom; then lay in your Ice, and put in amongst it a Pound of Bay-Salt; set in your Pots of Cream, and lay Ice and Salt between every Pot, that they may not touch; but the Ice must lie round them on every Side; lay a good deal of Ice on the Top, cover the Pail with Straw, set it in a Cellar where no Sun or Light comes, it will be froze in four Hours, but it may stand longer; than take it out just as you use it; hold it in your Hand and it will slip out. When you wou ' d freeze any Sort of Fruit, either Cherries, Rasberries, Currants, or Strawberries, fill your Tin-Pots with the Fruit, but as hollow as you can; put to them Lemmonade, made with Spring-Water and Lemmon-Juice sweeten ' d; put enough in the Pots to make the Fruit hang together, and put them in Ice as you do Cream. 
  
 To make HARTSHORN-FLUMMERY.
