CUT a hind quarter of Lamb into thin flices* 
 feafon it with favoury Spice, and lay them in 
 the Pye with an hard Lettuce, and Artichoke bot¬ 
 toms, the tops of an hundred of Afparagus: Lay 
 on Butter, and clofe the Pye. When it is bak’d, 
 pour into it a Lear. 
  
  
 A Mutton Pye. 
  
 SEASON your Mutton-fteaks with favoury 
 Spice fill the Pye, lay on the Butter, and 
 clofe the Pye: When it is baked, tofs up a hand¬ 
 ful of chopp’d Capers, Cucumbers and Oyfters, in 
 Gravy, an Anchovy, and drawn Butter. 
  
 A Pigeon Pye. 
  
 T RUSS and feafon your Pigeons with favoury 
 Spice, lard them with Bacon, and Huff them
with Forc’d-meat, and lay them in the Pye with 
 the Ingredients for favoury Pyes, with Butter, and 
 clofe the Pye. A Lear. A Chicken or Capon Pye 
 is made the fame way. 
  
 A Battalia Pye, 
  
MA K E four (mail Chickens, four fquab Pi- 
 | geons, four fucking Rabbets $ cut them in 
 pieces, feafon them with favoury Spice, and lay ’em 
 in the Pye, with four Sweetbreads lliced, and as 
 many Sheep’s-tongues, two fhiver’d Palates, two 
 pair of Lamb-ftones, twenty or thirty Coxcombs, 
 with favoury Balls and Oyfters. Lay on Butter, 
 and clofe the Pye. A Lear. 
  
 A Neats-Tbngue Pye . 
  
  
 H ALF boil the Tongues, blanch and flice
them} feafon them with favoury Spice, with 
  
 Balls, 
  
  
 9 
  
  
 The Compleat Houfewife . 
  
 Balls, diced Lemon and Butter, and clofe the Pye. 
 When it is bak’d, pour into it a Ragoo. 
  
  
  
 T AKE a quart of Oyfters, and wafh them in 
 their own Liquor very well, till all the grit- 
 tinefs is out ; put them in a Sauce-pan or Stew-pan, 
 and (train the Liquor over them, fet them on the 
 fire, and fcum them* then put in three or four
have ’em, or fome hot Gravy : So ferve them up in- 
 dead of a Pudding. 
  
 A Veal Pye. 
  
 R AISE an high Pye, then cut a Fillet of Veal 
 into three or four Fillets, feafon it with favou- 
 ry Spice, a little minc’d Sage and fweet Herbs 3 lay 
 it in the Pye, with dices of Bacon at the bottom, 
 and betwixt each piece, lay on Butter, and clofe the 
 Pye. 
  
 A "Turkey Pye . 
  
 B ONE the Turkey, feafon it with favoury 
 Spice, and lay it in the Pye with two Capons, 
 or two Wild-Ducks cut in pieces to fill up the Cor¬ 
 ners 3 lay on Butter, and clofe the Pye. 
  
 A Florendine of a Kidney o f Veal\
CUT them in pieces, and fry them in Butter, 
 j then having ready hot a pint of Gravy, a 
 little Claret, and White-wine, and ftrong Broth, 
 two Anchovies, two fhiver’d Palates, a Faggot of 
 Sweet-herbs, favoury Balls and Spice, thicken it 
 with brown Butter, and fqueeze on it a Lemon. 
  
 A White Fricafy of the fame. 
  
 C UT them in pieces, and wafh them from the 
 Blood, and fry them on a foft Fire, then put 
 them in a Tofting-pan, with a little ftrong Broth* 
 feafon them, and tofs them up with Mufhrooms and 
 Oyfters, when almoft enough, put to them a pint 
 of Cream, and thicken it with a bit of Butter roll’d 
 up in Flour. 
  
  
 D z 
 
 
  
  
  
 The compleat Houfewife . 
  
  
 A Fricafy of Lamb. 
  
 C U T an hind quarter of Lamb into thin dices? 
  
 feafon it with favoury Spices, Sweet-herbs 5 
 and a Shallot 3 then fry them, and tofs them up in 
 ilrong Broth, White-wine, Oyiters, Balls and Pa¬ 
 lates, a little brown Butter to thicken it, or a bit of 
 Butter roll’d up in Flour. 
  
  
  
 Sauce for a IV00 cl cock,
then ftew fome Morells in White-wine, with 
 an Efchalot, two Anchovies, a little Thyme, and a 
 few Oyfters or Cockles, and Salt to your Tafte; 
 when they have ftewed well together, put in your 
 Eggs, and a bit of Butter; tofs them together till 
 ’tis thick, and then ferve it up. 
  
  
 xo make Fore d-meat. 
  
  
 f"|  ' lAKE a piece of a Leg of Veal, the lean part, 
 II and fome lean Bacon; mince them very fine, 
 and add a double quantity of Suet; put it all in a 
 Marble Mortar; beat it well, fprinkle it with a little 
 Water in the beating; feafon it with Pepper, Salt, 
 and a little Cloves and Mace, to your Tafte; fhred 
 Spinnage very fine, if you would have it look green, 
 or elfe without; make it up as you ufe it, with an 
 Egg or two, and roll it in long or round Balls.
120 The Compleat Houfewife . 
  
 To make a favoury Lamb Pye. 
  
 S EASON your Lamb with Pepper, Salt, CIoves 3 
 Mace and Nutmeg: fo put it into your Coffin 
 with a few Lamb-Hones, and Sweet-breads feafoned 
 ts your Lamb, alfo fome large OyHers, and favoury 
 Forc’d-meat Balls, hard yolks of Eggs, and the tops 
 of Afparagus two inches long, firfl boiled green 9 
 then put Butter all over the Pye, and lid it, and fet 
 it in a quick Oven an hour and half* then make the 
 Liquor with Oyfler-Liquor, as much Gravy, a little 
 Claret, with one Anchovy in it, a grated Nutmeg. 
 Let thefe have a boil, thicken it with the yolks of 
 two or three Eggs, and when the Pye is drawn, pour 
 jt in hot. 
  
 To make a fweet Lamb Pye. 
 
together, and drew them over your Collops, and 
 fprinkle a little Orange-flower-water on them, and 
 roll the Collops up very clofe, and lay them in 
 your Pye, ftrewing the Seafoning that is left over 
 them * put Butter on the top, and clofe up your 
 Pyei when ’tis drawn, put in Gravy, and one An¬ 
 chovy diffolved in it, and pour it in very hott And 
 you may put in Artichoke-bottoms and Chefnuts ? 
 if you pleafe, or diced Lemon, or Grapes fcalded, 
 or what elfe is in fcafon* but if you will make it 
 a right favoury Pye leave them out. 
  
 To make a Florendine of Veal. 
  
 T AKE the Kidney of a Loin of Veal, fat and 
 all, and mince it very fine* then chop a few 
 Herbs, and put to it, and add a few Currants j 
 feafon it with Cloves, Mace, Nutmeg, and a little 
 Salt* and put in fome yolks of Eggs, and a handful 
 of grated Bread, a Pippin or two chopt, fome can¬
four or five Bones, dip your Marrow in yolks of 
 Eggs and grated Bread, and feafon it as you did your 
 Artichokes, and lay it on the top and between your 
 Artichokes; then lay on fliced Lemon, Barberries, 
 and large Mace; put Butter on the top, and dole 
 up your Pye ; then make your Lear of White-wine. 
 Sack and Sugar; thicken it with yolks of Eggs, and 
 a bit of Butter; when your Pye is drawn, pour it in, 
 lhake it together, and ferve it hot. 
  
 lo make a Skirret Pye. 
  
 B OIL your biggefl Skirrets, and blanch them, 
 and feafon them with Cinamon, Nutmeg; 
 and a very little Ginger and Sugar. Your Pye being 
 ready, lay in your Skirrets; feafon alfo the Marrow 
 of three or four Bones with Cinamon, Sugar, a little 
 Salt and grated Bread. Lay the Marrow in your 
 Pye, and the yolks of twelve hard Eggs cut in 
 halves, a handful of Chefnuts boiled and blanched,
