condiments, so that a fine flavour is produced without the undue 
 preponderance of either. 
  
 It is only in coarse cooking that the flavour of onions, pepper, 
 garlic, nutmeg, and eschalot is permitted to prevail. As a general 
 rule, salt should be used in moderation. 
  
 Sugar is an improvement in nearly all soups, sauces, and gravies; also 
 with stewed vegetables, but of course must be used with discretion. 
  
 Ketchups, Soy, Harvey  '  s sauce, &c., are used too indiscrimately by 
 inferior cooks; it is better to leave them to be added at table by 
 those who approve of their flavour. 
  
 Any thing that is required to be warmed up a second time, should be 
 set in a basin placed in a _bain-marie_, or saucepan, filled with 
 boiling water, but which must not be allowed to boil; or the article 
 will become hardened and the sauce dried up. 
  
 To remove every particle of fat from the gravies of stews, &c., a
SWEET SAUCE. 
  
 The usual way of making sauces for puddings, is by adding sugar 
 to melted butter, or thin egg sauce, flavoring it with white wine, 
 brandy, lemon peel, or any other flavor approved of. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 MELTED BUTTER. 
  
 Although this sauce is one of the most simple, it is very rarely that 
 it is well made. Mix with four ounces of butter, a desert spoonful 
 of flour, when well mixed, add three table spoonsful of water, put it 
 into a clean saucepan kept for the purpose, and stir it carefully 
 one way till it boils; white sauce to throw over vegetables served on 
 toast, is made in the same way, only putting milk and water, instead 
 of water only. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
 
SAUCE WITHOUT BUTTER FOR BOILED PUDDINGS. 
  
 Mix a table-spoonful of flour, with two of water, add a little wine, 
 lemon peel grated, a small bit of clarified suet, of the size of a 
 walnut, grated nutmeg, and sugar, put on in a saucepan, stirring one 
 way, and adding water if too thick, lemon juice, or essence of noyeau, 
 or almonds may be substituted to vary the flavour. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 SAUCE ROBERT FOR STEAKS. 
  
 Chop up some onions, throw them into a saucepan with a bit of 
 clarified fat, let them fry till brown, then add pepper, salt, a 
 little gravy, mustard, lemon juice, and vinegar; boil it all, and pour 
 over the steaks. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 CAPER SAUCE.
 
 This is merely melted butter with a few pickled capers simmered in it, 
 or they may be put into a sauce made of broth thickened with egg, and 
 a little flour. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 SAVORY HERB POWDER. 
  
 It is useful to select a variety of herbs, so that they may always 
 be at hand for use: the following are considered to be an excellent 
 selection, parsley, savory, thyme, sweet majoram, shalot, chervil, and 
 sage, in equal quantities; dry these in the oven, pound them finely 
 and keep them in bottles well stopped. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 SEASONING FOR DUCKS AND GEESE. 
  
 Mix chopped onion with an equal quantity of chopped sage, three times
tisoles, fritters, and stuffings for poultry and veal, it is a branch 
 of cooking which requires great care and judgment, the proportions 
 should be so blended as to produce a delicate, yet savoury flavor, 
 without allowing any particular herb or spice to predominate. 
  
 The ingredients should always be pounded well together in a mortar, 
 not merely chopped and moistened with egg, as is usually done by 
 inexperienced cooks; forcemeat can be served in a variety of forms, 
 and is so useful a resource, that it well repays the attention it 
 requires. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 A SUPERIOR FORCEMEAT FOR RISOLLES, FRITTERS, AND SAVORY MEAT BALLS. 
  
 Scrape half a pound of the fat of smoked beef, and a pound of lean 
 veal, free from skin, vein, or sinew, pound it finely in a mortar 
 with chopped mushrooms, a little minced parsley, salt and pepper, 
 and grated lemon peel, then have ready the crumb of two French rolls 
 soaked in good gravy, press out the moisture, and add the crumb to the
meat with three beaten eggs; if the forcemeat is required to be very 
 highly flavored, the gravy in which the rolls are soaked should be 
 seasoned with mushroom powder; a spoonful of ketchup, a bay leaf, an 
 onion, pepper, salt, and lemon juice, add this panada to the pounded 
 meat and eggs, form the mixture into any form required, and either fry 
 or warm in gravy, according to the dish for which it is intended. 
  
 Any cold meats pounded, seasoned, and made according to the above 
 method are excellent; the seasoning can be varied, or rendered simpler 
 if required. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 COMMON VEAL, STUFFING. 
  
 Have equal quantities of finely shred suet and grated crumbs of bread, 
 add chopped sweet herbs, grated lemon peel, pepper, and salt, pound it 
 in a mortar; this is also used for white poultry, with the addition 
 of a little grated smoked beef, or a piece of the root of a tongue 
 pounded and mixed with the above ingredients.
SMOKED BEEF. 
  
 As there are seldom conveniences in private kitchens for smoking 
 meats, it will generally be the best and cheapest plan to have them 
 ready prepared for cooking. All kinds of meats smoked and salted, 
 are to be met with in great perfection at all the Hebrew butchers. 
  
 _Chorisa_, that most refined and savoury of all sausages, is to be 
 also procured at the same places. It is not only excellent fried in 
 slices with poached eggs or stewed with rice, but imparts a delicious 
 flavor to stews, soups, and sauces, and is one of the most useful 
 resources of the Jewish kitchen. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 A WHITE FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. 
  
 Take four or five pounds of breast of veal, or fillet from the 
 shoulder; stuff it with a finely flavoured veal stuffing and put it 
 into a stewpan with water sufficient to cover it, a calf  '  s-foot cut
in pieces is sometimes added, season with one onion, a blade of mace, 
 white pepper and salt, and a sprig of parsley, stew the whole gently 
 until the meat is quite tender, then skim and strain the gravy and 
 stir in the beaten yolks of four eggs, and the juice of two lemons 
 previously mixed smoothly with a portion of the gravy, button 
 mushrooms, or pieces of celery stewed with the veal are sometimes 
 added by way of varying the flavor, egg and forcemeat balls garnish 
 the dish. When required to look elegant it should be piqué. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 A BROWN FRICASSEE. 
  
 Cut a breast of veal in pieces, fry them lightly and put them into a 
 stewpan with a good beef gravy, seasoned with white pepper, salt, a 
 couple of sliced onions (previously browned in a little oil), and a 
 piece of whole ginger, let it simmer very slowly for two hours taking 
 care to remove the scum or fat, have ready some rich forcemeat and 
 spread it about an inch thick over three cold hard boiled eggs, fry 
 these for a few moments and put them in the saucepan with the veal;
Take the fillet off a small leg or shoulder of mutton, rub it well 
 over with egg and seasoning, and partly roast it, then place it in a 
 stewpan with a little strong gravy, and stew gently till thoroughly 
 done; this dish is simple, but exceedingly nice; a few balls or 
 fritters to garnish will improve it. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 MAINTENON CUTLETS. 
  
 This is merely broiling or frying cutlets in a greased paper, after 
 having spread on them a seasoning prepared as follows: make a paste 
 of bread crumbs, chopped parsley, nutmeg, pepper, salt, grated lemon 
 peel, and thyme, with a couple of beaten eggs; a piquante sauce should 
 be served in a tureen. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 A HARRICOT. 
 
Cut off the best end of a neck of mutton into chops, flour and partly 
 fry them, then lay them in a stewpan with carrots, sliced turnips cut 
 in small round balls, some button onions, and cover with water; skim 
 frequently, season with pepper and salt to taste, color the gravy with 
 a little browning and a spoonful of mushroom powder. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 IRISH STEW. 
  
 Is the same as above, excepting that the meat is not previously fried, 
 and that potatoes are used instead of turnips and carrots. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 MUTTON A L  '  HISPANIOLA. 
  
 Take a small piece of mutton, either part of a shoulder or a fillet 
 of the leg, partly roast it, then put it in a stewpan with beef gravy 
 enough to cover it, previously seasoned with herbs, a carrot and
turnip; cut in quarters three large Spanish onions, and place in the 
 stewpan round the meat; a stuffing will improve it, and care must be 
 taken to free the gravy from every particle of fat. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 MUTTON COLLOPS. 
  
 Take from a fine knuckle a couple of slices, cut and trim them in 
 collops the size of a tea cup, flatten them and spread over each side 
 a forcemeat for cutlets, and fry them; potatoe or Jerusalem artichokes 
 cut in slices of the same size and thickness, or pieces of bread 
 cut with a fluted cutter, prepared as the collops and fried, must be 
 placed alternately in the dish with them; they may be served with a 
 pure simple gravy, or very hot and dry on a napkin, garnished with 
 fried parsley and slices of lemon. 
  
 The knuckle may be used in the following manner: put it on with 
 sufficient water to cover it, season it and simmer till thoroughly 
 done, thicken the gravy with prepared barley, and flavor it with lemon
See blankette of veal. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 TO STEW DUCK WITH GREEN PEAS. 
  
 Stuff and half roast a duck, then put it into a stew-pan with an onion 
 sliced, a little mint and about one pint of beef gravy, add after it 
 has simmered half an hour, a quart of green peas, and simmer another 
 half hour; a little lump sugar is requisite. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 TO WARM COLD POULTRY. 
  
 Cut up the pieces required to be dressed, spread over them a seasoning 
 as for cutlets, and fry them; pour over a little good gravy, and 
 garnish with sippets of toast and sliced lemon, or place them in an 
 edging of rice or mashed potatoes. 
 
*       *       *       *       * 
  
 BROILED FOWL AND MUSHROOMS. 
  
 Truss a fine fowl as if for boiling, split it down the back, and broil 
 gently; when nearly done, put it in a stewpan with a good gravy, add 
 a pint of fresh button mushrooms, season to taste; a little mushroom 
 powder and lemon juice improve the flavour. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 PIGEONS. 
  
 To have a good appearance they should be larded and stuffed; glazing 
 is also an improvement, they form a nice _entrée_; they may be stewed 
 in a strong gravy; when done enough, remove the pigeons, thicken the 
 gravy, add a few forcemeat and egg balls, and serve in the dish with 
 the pigeons. Or they may be split down the back, broiled, and then 
 finished in the stew-pan. 
 
*       *       *       *       * 
  
 STEWED GIBLETS. 
  
 Scald one or more sets of giblets, set them on the fire with a little 
 veal or chicken, or both, in a good gravy; season to taste, thicken 
 the gravy, and color it with browning, flavor with mushroom powder 
 and lemon-juice and one glass of white wine; forcemeat balls should 
 be added a few minutes before serving, and garnish with thin slices of 
 hard boiled eggs. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 DUTCH TOAST. 
  
 Take the remains of any cold poultry or meat, mince it and season 
 highly; add to it any cold dressed vegetable, mix it up with one or 
 more eggs, and let it simmer till hot in a little gravy; have ready 
 a square of toast, and serve it on it; squeeze over a little 
 lemon-juice, and sprinkle with white pepper. Vegetables prepared
A SAVOURY PIE FOR PERSONS OF DELICATE DIGESTION. 
  
 Cut up fowl and sweetbread, lay in the dish in alternate layers with 
 meat, jelly, and the yolks of hard-boiled eggs without the whites, 
 and flavor with lemon-juice, white pepper, and salt; cover with rice 
 prepared as follows: boil half a pound of rice in sufficient water to 
 permit it to swell; when tender beat it up to a thick paste with the 
 yolk of one or two eggs, season with a little salt, and spread it over 
 the dish thickly. The fowl and sweetbread should have been previously 
 simmered till half done in a little weak broth; the pie must be baked 
 in a gentle oven, and if the rice will not brown sufficiently, finish 
 with a salamander. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 DESCAIDES. 
  
 Take the livers of chickens or any other poultry; stew it gently in 
 a little good gravy seasoned with a little onion, mushroom essence, 
 pepper, and salt; when tender, remove the livers, place them on a
paste board, and mince them; return them to the saucepan, and stir 
 in the yolks of one or two eggs, according to the quantity of liver, 
 until the gravy becomes thick; have a round of toast ready on a hot 
 plate, and serve it on the toast; this is a very nice luncheon or 
 supper dish. 
  
  
  
  
 CHAPTER V. 
  
  
 Vegetables and Sundries. 
  
 DIRECTIONS FOR CLEANING AND BOILING VEGETABLES. 
  
 Vegetables are extremely nutritious when sufficiently boiled, but are 
 unwholesome and indigestible when not thoroughly dressed; still they 
 should not be over boiled, or they will lose their flavor. 
 
Vegetables should be shaken to get out any insects, and laid in water 
 with a little salt. 
  
 Soft water is best suited for boiling vegetables, and they require 
 plenty of water; a little salt should be put in the saucepan with 
 them, and the water should almost invariably be boiling when they are 
 put in. 
  
 Potatoes are much better when steamed. Peas and several other 
 vegetables are also improved by this mode of cooking them, although it 
 is seldom adopted in England. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 MASHED POTATOES. 
  
 Boil till perfectly tender; let them be quite dry, and press them 
 through a cullender, or mash and beat them well with a fork; add a 
 piece of butter, and milk, or cream, and continue beating till they 
 are perfectly smooth; return them to the saucepan to warm, or they may
BREAD FRUIT TARTS. 
  
 Line a dish with thin slices of bread, then lay the fruit with brown 
 sugar in alternate layers, with slices of bread; when the dish is 
 filled, pour over half a tea-cup full of water, and let the top be 
 formed of thin pieces of bread thickly strewed over with brown sugar, 
 bake until thoroughly done. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 RICE CUSTARD. 
  
 This is a very innocent and nutritive custard. Take two ounces of 
 whole rice and boil it in three pints of milk until it thickens, then 
 add half a pound of pounded sweet almonds, and sweeten to taste; a 
 stick of cinnamon and a piece of lemon peel should be boiled in it, 
 and then taken out. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
 
CREME BRUN. 
  
 Boil a large cup of cream, flavor with essence of almonds and 
 cinnamon, and then mix with it the yolk of three eggs, carefully 
 beaten and strained, stirring one way to keep it smooth; place it on a 
 dish in small heaps, strew over powdered sugar and beaten almonds, and 
 brown with a salamander. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 PANCAKES. 
  
 Mix a light batter of eggs with flour and milk or water, fry in 
 boiling butter or clarified suet; they may be fried without butter or 
 fat, by putting more eggs and a little cream, the pan must be very 
 dry and clean; those fried without butter are very delicate and 
 fashionable, they should be fried of the very lightest colour; they 
 are good also made of rice, which must be boiled in milk till quite 
 tender; then beat up with eggs, and flavoured according to taste, and 
 fried like other pancakes.
 
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 PANCAKES FOR CHILDREN. 
  
 Take a pint of finely grated bread crumbs, simmer in a little milk 
 and water, flavour with cinnamon or lemon peel grated, add a couple of 
 beaten eggs, and sweeten to taste, drop a small quantity into the pan 
 and fry like pancakes. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 A NICE RICE PUDDING FOR CHILDREN. 
  
 Boil till tender half a pound of well picked rice in one quart of 
 fresh milk, sweeten with white sugar, and flavour with whole cinnamon, 
 lemon peel, and a bay leaf; when the rice is tender, place it in a 
 deep dish, pour over a very little butter warmed in a little milk, 
 and bake until brown; a slow oven is requisite unless the rice is 
 extremely soft before it is put in the oven.
 
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 PLUM PUDDING. 
  
 To one pound of currants add one pound of raisins, one pound of shred 
 suet, one pound flour (or half a pound bread crumbs and half a pound 
 of flour), a quarter of a pound of candied orange and lemon peel, 
 a little citron cut thin, half a pound of moist sugar; mix all well 
 together as each article is added, then stir in six beaten eggs and a 
 glass of brandy, beat the pudding well for half an hour, let it stand 
 some time, then put it into a basin and boil six or seven hours in 
 plenty of water; it should be seasoned according to taste with ginger, 
 nutmeg, cloves, &c. Serve with sifted sugar or whites of eggs beaten 
 to a froth. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 RATAFIA PUDDING. 
 
Soak the crumb of a French roll and half a pound of ratafia cakes in 
 milk or cream, then mix with them three ounces of warmed fresh butter, 
 the yolks of five and the whites of two eggs, sweeten to taste; add 
 one ounce of pounded almonds, and a few bitter almonds, boil in a 
 shape lined with dried cherries, or bake in a cake-tin first well 
 buttered, and sprinkled with bread crumbs. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 PASSOVER PUDDING. 
  
 Mix equal quantities of biscuit powder and shred suet, half the 
 quantity of currants and raisins, a little spice and sugar, with an 
 ounce of candied peels, and fine well beaten eggs; make these into 
 a stiff batter, and boil well, and serve with a sweet sauce. This 
 pudding is excellent baked in a pudding tin, it must be turned out 
 when served. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
 
and sweeten with white sifted sugar; add grated lemon peel, and a 
 spoonful of orange flower-water, and fry of a light brown; the flavor 
 may be varied by substituting a few beaten almonds, with one or two 
 bitter, instead of the orange flower-water. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 A SUPERIOR RECEIPT FOR PASSOVER FRITTERS. 
  
 Make a thin batter as already described in the former receipt; drop 
 it into a souflé pan, fry lightly, and strew over pounded cinnamon, 
 sifted sugar, and finely chopped almonds; hold over a salamander to 
 brown the upper side. Slide the fritter on to a hot dish, and fold; 
 pour over, when in the dish, clarified sugar. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 PASSOVER CURRANT FRITTERS. 
  
 Mix a thick batter, as before, add some well-washed and dried
currants, and fry of a rich brown; serve with a sweet sauce, flavored 
 with wine or shrub, and sweetened with moist sugar; these are often 
 made in the shape of small balls, and fried and served in the same 
 sauce. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 BATTER PUDDING. 
  
 Stir in three ounces of flour, four beaten eggs, and one pint of milk, 
 sweeten to taste, and mix to a smooth batter about the thickness of 
 good cream, and boil in a buttered basin. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 CUSTARD PUDDING. 
  
 To one desert spoonful of flour, add one pint of fresh milk and the 
 yolks of five eggs; flavor according to fancy, with sugar, nutmeg, or 
 lemon-peel; beat to a froth two whites of eggs and pour to the rest;
boil rather more than half an hour. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 BREAD PUDDING. 
  
 Grate stale bread, or soak the crumb of a French roll in milk, which 
 must be warmed; beat with it two or three eggs, flavor and sweeten 
 to taste, sometimes with a little wine or essence of lemon, or beaten 
 almonds; it will require to be boiled about half an hour. This pudding 
 is excellent made as above, with the addition of the peel of one whole 
 lemon grated, with its juice, and baked. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 VERMICELLI AND MACCARONI PUDDING. 
  
 Boil till tender four ounces of either of the above articles, in a 
 pint of milk; flavor as directed in the preceding receipt, and boil in 
 a mould, which may be lined with raisins. It should be served with any
sweet pudding sauce. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 MILLET, ARROWROOT, GROUND RICE, RICE, TAPIOCA, AND SAGO PUDDINGS. 
  
 Puddings of this sort are so similar and simple, that it is only 
 necessary to give one receipt, which will serve as a guide for 
 all;--they are all made with milk, all require to be thoroughly done, 
 all require to be mixed with eggs and sweetened with sugar, and 
 are good either boiled or baked. The cook must use her judgment in 
 adopting the quantities to the size of the pudding required, and the 
 taste of the family she serves. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 MINCED MEAT. 
  
 Take one pound of tender roasted meat, two pounds of shred suet, three 
 pounds of currants, six chopped apples, a quarter of a loaf grated,
nutmegs, cloves, pepper, salt, one pound of sugar, grated lemon and 
 orange peel, lemon juice, and two wine glasses of brandy, the same of 
 white wine, and two ounces of citron, and the same of candied lemon 
 peel; mix all well together; the ingredients ought to be added 
 separately. Minced meat should be kept a day or two before using. The 
 same proportions, as above, without meat, will be very good; a little 
 port wine is sometimes substituted for the brandy. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 BAKED SUET PUDDING. 
  
 Mix one pint of water, six ounces of flour, three of shred suet, and 
 two or three beaten eggs; sweeten to taste. Add raisins or currants if 
 approved, and bake in a brick oven. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 
 
of dissolved isinglass, beat it all thoroughly together, and fill the 
 mould, which should be set in ice till wanted. A table spoonful of 
 marasquino added to the above, will make _Italian cream_. A table 
 spoonful of fresh or preserved pine-apple will make _pine-apple 
 cream_; this will require the addition of a little lemon syrup. A 
 table spoonful of ratafia, will make it _ratifia cream_. 
  
 The juice of strawberries or raspberries make fine fruit creams; 
 _mille fruit cream_ is made by mixing with the cream any kind of small 
 preserved fruit. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 RICE SOUFLES. 
  
 Boil well some fine picked rice, in pure fresh milk, sweeten and 
 flavour with a bay leaf, lemon peel, and a stick of cinnamon, all 
 which must be taken out when the rice is done, then line with it 
 a round dish, or souflé dish, have ready apples previously boiled, 
 sweetened, and beat up smoothly, place the apple lightly in the centre
rather higher in the middle than at the sides, beat up the whites of 
 eggs to a froth, sweeten and flavour with lemon, or noyau essence; 
 place it in small heaps tastefully on the apple and rice, and brown 
 delicately with a salamander. This souflé may have stewed cherries or 
 any _other_ kind of fruit, instead of the apples if preferred. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 BOILED CUSTARD. 
  
 Take a pint of milk, let it simmer in a very clean saucepan, flavor 
 it with lemon-peel and a bay leaf, and sweeten to taste; while gently 
 boiling, add the beaten yolks of four eggs, and the whites of two, 
 continue stirring until the custard thickens, when it must be removed 
 from the fire, but it is requisite to stir it until it cools. It is 
 necessary to strain the milk before the eggs are added, and also to 
 pass the eggs through a sieve. Custards are flavoured sometimes 
 with essence of almonds; a little cream added to the milk is a great 
 improvement. The above mixture may be baked in small cups; they 
 require a quarter of an hour to bake.
 
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 CALF  '  S FEET JELLY. 
  
 Boil two feet in two quarts, or five pints of water, till the water 
 has half wasted; strain, and when cold, take off the fat, then put it 
 in the saucepan with lump sugar, lemon juice, and white wine to taste, 
 also a little lemon peel; when simmered a few minutes, throw in the 
 whites of two eggs, and their shells broken, which will have the 
 effect of clarifying the jelly; let it boil about ten minutes after 
 the scum rises, then pour it through a flannel bag or thick cloth, 
 dipping the bag or cloth first into hot water; pass the jelly through 
 it until clear, then pour it into moulds and put them in a cool place 
 to set. One calf  '  s foot and one cow heel will be more economical than 
 two calfs feet. If fruit is desired to be in the jelly, it must be put 
 in when the jelly begins to stiffen in the mould. 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
 
ORANGE JELLY. 
  
 This can be made with calf  '  s feet or without. One quart of water will 
 require one ounce of isinglass, simmer the isinglass in the water, 
 and add the peel of one lemon and one orange; when the isinglass is 
 dissolved, add the juice of a lemon and six fine oranges; although the 
 quantity must vary according to the season for them, sweeten with half 
 a pound of white sugar; a Seville orange is added if there should not 
 be much flavor in the others. 
  
 Lemon jelly is made in the same way; the peel of a Seville orange and 
 of a lemon is used, with the juice of five lemons; rather more sugar 
 will be required with this jelly than with the former. 
  
 Punch jelly is made in the same way. An equal quantity of brandy 
 and rum, with the juice of two or three lemons is mixed with the 
 isinglass, which is dissolved in one pint of water, the other pint of 
 liquid being made up by the lemon juice and spirits. 
  
 The essence of noyeau is reckoned to give an exquisite flavor, in this
the day-time, and using any of the emollients we have recommended for 
 softening and improving the skin. 
  
  
  
  
 CHAPTER V. 
  
  
 Dress. 
  
 In dress, simplicity should be preferred to magnificence: it is 
 surely more gratifying to be admired for a refined taste, than for an 
 elaborate and dazzling splendour;--the former always produces pleasing 
 impressions, while the latter generally only provokes criticism. 
  
 Too costly an attire forms a sort of fortification around a woman 
 which wards off the admiration she might otherwise attract. The true 
 art of dress is to make it harmonize so perfectly with the style 
 of countenance and figure as to identify it, as it were, with the
character of the wearer. 
  
 All ornaments and trimmings should be adopted sparingly; trinkets and 
 jewellery should seldom appear to be worn merely for display; they 
 should be so selected and arranged as to seem necessary, either for 
 the proper adjustment of some part of the dress, or worn for the sake 
 of pleasing associations. 
  
 Fashion should never be followed too closely, still less should 
 a singularity of style be affected; the prevailing mode should be 
 modified and adapted to suit individual peculiarity. The different 
 effect of colours and the various forms of dress should be duly 
 considered by every lady, as a refined taste in dress indicates a 
 correct judgment. 
  
 A short stout figure should avoid the loose flowing robes and ample 
 drapery suitable for tall slight women; while these again should 
 be cautious of adopting fashions which compress the figure, give 
 formality, or display angles. The close-fitting corsage and tight 
 sleeve, becoming to the short, plump female, should be modified with
simple trimmings, to give fullness and width across the shoulders and 
 bust, and a rounded contour to the arms. Flounces and tucks, which 
 rise high in the skirt, are not suitable to short persons; they cut 
 the figure and destroy symetry. To tall women, on the contrary, 
 they add grace and dignity. Dresses made half high are extremely 
 unbecoming; they should either be cut close up to the throat or low. 
 It is, however, in bad taste to wear them very low on the shoulders 
 and bosom: in youth, it gives evidence of the absence of that modesty 
 which is one of its greatest attractions; and in maturer years it is 
 the indication of a depraved coquetry, which checks the admiration it 
 invites. 
  
 It is always requisite for a lady to exert her own taste in the choice 
 of form, colour, and style, and not leave it to the fancy of her 
 dress-maker, as although the person she employs may be eminently 
 qualified for her profession, a lady who possesses any discernment can 
 best judge of what is suitable to her style of countenance and figure. 
  
 In dress there should be but one prevailing colour, to which all 
 others should be adapted, either by harmonising with it, or by
contrast; in the latter case the relieving color should be in small 
 quantity, or it would overpower the other in effect, as a general 
 rule, sombre negative colours show off a woman to the greatest 
 advantage, just as the beauties of a painting are enhanced by being 
 set in a dull frame; still, there are some occasions with which the 
 gayer tints accord better, and as propriety and fitness are matters of 
 high consideration, the woman of taste must be guided in the selection 
 of her apparel by the knowledge of the purport for which it is 
 intended, always endeavouring to fix on that shade of colour which 
 best becomes her complexion. 
  
  
  
  
 CHAPTER VI. 
  
  
 Effect of Diet on Complexion. 
  
 As the color of the skin depends upon the secretions of the _rete
