counterbalance of unctuous seasoning, which no doubt caused the 
 celebrated Leibnitz to say, in his treatise upon the chemistry of food, 
 now translated into English, and to which I have already referred in my 
 _Shilling Cookery Book_,   '  That among all the arts known to man, there is 
 none which enjoys a juster appreciation, and the products of which are 
 more universally admired, than that which is concerned in the 
 preparation of our food. Led by an instinct which has almost reached the 
 dignity of conscious knowledge, as the unerring guide, and by the sense 
 of taste, which protects the health, the experienced cook, with respect 
 to the choice, admixture, and preparation of food, has made acquisitions 
 surpassing all that chemical and physiological science have done in 
 regard to the doctrine or theory of nutrition.  '  " 
  
 "Well, no doubt if the celebrated Leibnitz, who is considered one of the 
 greatest authorities of the age, says so, you cannot be wrong, having 
 had so much practice in the culinary art." 
  
 "I also maintain that with the simplest and cheapest of all aliments, 
 when in good condition, I have turned out a most wholesome and palatable 
 food, quite worthy of the most refined palate, or of that of the
initiated epicure. For instance, if only first-class provisions could be 
 converted into succulent dishes, the gastronomic bill of fare of this 
 sublunary world would indeed be so limited that more than two-thirds of 
 its inhabitants would be classified as martyrs to the Mageric art--or, 
 more plainly speaking, martyrs to the science of cookery--a too often 
 neglected art, though of daily requirement; for, believe me, the 
 everlasting pleasures of the table, which favour all ages, are not only 
 the basis of good health when properly managed, but also the soul of 
 sociability, not merely in high circles, but in every class of society, 
 no matter how humble, the stomach of each individual having been nursed 
 according to rank and wealth. Those most to be pitied are the real 
 epicures of limited means, or the wealthy man without appetite or of bad 
 digestion. The proverb is quite correct,   '  What the eye does not see the 
 heart cannot grieve;  '   and appetite being the best of sauce, will cause 
 the coarsest food to be digested with delight by a robust stomach. By 
 the same rule, what is more relished by our noble epicure than a dry 
 sandwich or a coarse crust of bread and cheese at a farmhouse after a 
 hard day  '  s sport?" 
  
 "Upon my word, you are perfectly right; appetite is really the best of
was full of smoke, and everything was boiling too fast. In consequence 
 of the bad quality of the charcoal, a wall of bricks had been raised 
 round each stove, and thus wood and charcoal were used _ad libitum_, 
 burning the rice-pudding, and over-doing everything. In fact, everything 
 had the disagreeable flavour of being burnt. As I did not wish to alarm 
 them, I merely remarked that the fire was too fierce; and, on the 
 following morning, I took one of my men with me to teach them how to 
 manage better. 
  
 We then visited several other kitchens, all of which were, more or less, 
 in the same state. To this there was, however, a single exception, to 
 which I must do justice by observing, that, though not quite perfect as 
 a model--being short of cooking utensils--still it was clean, and 
 everything we tasted was far superior in flavour. Nothing was burnt, 
 except a slight catch in the rice-pudding; but this was a mere trifle, 
 compared with the way the viands were spoilt in the other places. The 
 beef-tea, chicken-broth, &c., were nicely done, although they all wanted 
 seasoning. At my first visit to the various diet kitchens, I tasted the 
 soups made for the patients, which I found quite free from the slightest 
 suspicion of seasoning, and consequently tasteless. I then asked to have
a couple of basins filled with this. To one I added the requisite 
 seasoning, and requested Doctor Cumming to taste of both. The Doctor 
 complied with my request, and could scarcely believe it possible that 
 such an improvement could be effected by so trifling an addition. He 
 then expressed his approval and decided that in future the cook should 
 season the soup, instead of leaving the same to the irregular tastes of 
 the patients. 
  
 "Well," said Doctor Macgregor, "this is by the doctor  '  s order, you may 
 be sure." 
  
 "I have not the pleasure of knowing that gentleman, yet, though I admire 
 his kitchen very much, and must admit that he keeps it in good order, I 
 shall certainly tell him when I see him that I do not agree with his 
 method of not seasoning the broths, &c., while in course of preparation. 
 It is very true they ought not to be too highly seasoned; but it is the 
 province of the cook, as I before said, to season for the patient, and 
 not the patient for the cook. Instead of giving so much salt in the 
 ward, I would allow each patient but little or none at all; because in 
 all cookery it is the combination of good and wholesome ingredients
is not properly done; the meat swells, and it is impossible for the heat 
 or the water even to get at it." 
  
 "Ah, I noticed that several of the men did exactly as you say this 
 morning," said Miss Nightingale. "The parts which are well done were 
 placed loose upon the stick; and this explains the mystery--but I shall 
 alter that to-morrow." 
  
 Having afterwards inspected several extra-diet kitchens, and tasted 
 various things, I perceived what I could accomplish, both as regarded 
 convalescents and extra diets. Miss Nightingale having again offered to 
 render any assistance in her power, left us; as she had a great deal to 
 attend to. I retraced my steps to Dr. Cumming  '  s, and stated my opinion 
 of the present system of cooking; and explained what I proposed doing, 
 of all of which he approved highly. I then returned to the kitchen, and 
 sent a requisition for six rations of everything allowed for making the 
 soup. I proceeded thus:-- 
  
 To eight pints of water I put four pounds of meat, a quarter of a pound 
 of barley, a little salt and pepper, and the allowance of vegetables,
and in about an hour I produced a very good soup--some of which I sent 
 to several doctors. They tasted and praised it highly, as being very 
 nourishing and palatable. I then carried some to Dr. Cumming, who 
 approved of its composition; but expressed his opinion that it would 
 probably be too expensive. I then informed him I had made it with the 
 ration allowance, taking the meat at half-diet scale. He was much 
 pleased with the meat, which he pronounced highly palatable, and thought 
 that the seasoning should be put in with the other ingredients. I 
 explained that I could still improve it by the simple addition of a 
 small quantity of sugar and flour. 
  
 "The purveyor will not, I am certain, refuse that," said he. 
  
 "Oh, I am aware of that; but I wish to manage it without increasing the 
 expense. I must accomplish that, if possible." Miss Nightingale and Dr. 
 Macgregor, to both of whom I sent some, praised it even more than the 
 others had done, particularly the meat, which they stated to be of a 
 very excellent flavour, and they had the opportunity of tasting the 
 former. Mr. Milton came in, and though I had not had the pleasure of 
 seeing that gentleman, from the description I had heard of him, and his
pleasing manner, I knew I was not mistaken in saying--"Mr. Milton, allow 
 me to have the honour of tendering my best compliments and thanks for 
 your prompt visit." 
  
 "No person could be more welcome here than you are, Monsieur Soyer. I 
 only regret I was not in my office when you called. I should have been 
 happy to have accompanied you round the wards. Your very just remarks 
 have been repeated to me and the plan you mean to adopt explained, but I 
 fear you will meet with so many difficulties that you will get tired 
 before you have achieved much good." 
  
 "Not at all," I replied; "you will see a great change by to-morrow, 
 which must be attributed chiefly to the politeness and cordial 
 assistance I have met with from the members of every 
 department--especially your own--which to me is the most important." 
  
 "I have given orders that everything you may require is to be placed at 
 your disposal, if in store; and any alteration or suggestion which is 
 likely to be beneficial will be immediately attended to. You have only 
 to ask for anything you need in the way of cooking utensils, and it
shall, if possible, be procured." 
  
 "My great object and delight will be to effect a change with the daily 
 allowance." 
  
 "That would certainly be as well; but I fancy it cannot be done. The 
 provisions here are of a quality very inferior to what we get in 
 London." 
  
 "You are quite right, if they are all like those I saw this morning. 
 Favour me by tasting these two soups. Julien! please to give Mr. Milton 
 two small basins of soup--one of mine, and one of that made at the 
 hospital." On tasting mine first he pronounced it very good and 
 palatable, and of an excellent flavour. The other, although made with 
 exactly the same materials, he could hardly swallow. It had no 
 seasoning, had a blackish appearance, and was quite tasteless. 
  
 "There is no comparison," said Mr. Milton. 
  
 "All the soup will in future be like the sample I have made, and I can
appointed for the arrival of the visitors, I fetched Doctor Cumming, and 
 requested him to taste the several samples, and give me his candid 
 opinion; observing that everything was made from the usual allowance, 
 and cost about the same, or even less, when made in large quantities. 
  
 No. 1, was beef-tea. Tasting my sample first, Doctor Cumming pronounced 
 it good; the other, without taste or flavour. No. 1 was adopted. 
  
 Then followed chicken-broth, mutton-broth, beef-soup, rice-water, 
 barley-water, arrowroot-water, ditto with wine, sago with port, 
 calves  '  -foot jelly, &c. Everything was found superior, and so highly 
 commended by the doctor-in-chief, I no longer had any doubt of success, 
 nor of the general approval of all the faculty. I promised to lay the 
 recipes for my new diets before the doctor the next day, and he 
 retired.[10] 
  
 About half-past twelve, the kitchen was crowded to excess with military 
 and medical men. Lord William Paulet entered, followed by his staff, and 
 accompanied by Mr. Milton, Mr. and Mrs. Bracebridge, &c. They were much 
 pleased with the cleanly appearance of the kitchen, and equally
military rules and regulations. 
  
 Second.--That all military men now engaged cooking in the hospitals 
 and barrack kitchens shall be immediately instructed in the art of 
 camp-cooking. As they are already acquainted with the plain mode of 
 cooking, it will only require a few lessons from Monsieur Soyer, 
 under his new and simple style, to become thoroughly conversant 
 with this branch of culinary operations, highly essential at the 
 present crisis, and about which the Right Honourable Lord Panmure, 
 her Majesty  '  s Minister-at-War, expressed the greatest anxiety 
 personally to Monsieur Soyer, on his mission to Scutari, with a 
 view to disseminating the system throughout the army. Monsieur 
 Soyer feels assured that if present in the camp for a few weeks he 
 will be enabled to carry out this important object, at the same 
 time introducing wholesome and nutritious food made out of the 
 usual allowances of provisions supplied to the army, so soon as his 
 field or bivouac stove shall be adopted by the Crimean authorities. 
  
 A. SOYER. 
 
their aroma as well as their nutritious qualities. I therefore proposed 
 that the firm of Messrs. Chollet, in Paris, should prepare a sample of 
 cakes of dried vegetables, to be called coarse julienne, for the army. 
 Each hundredweight of fresh vegetables was to consist of the following 
 proportions:-- 
  
 Twenty pounds of carrots, twenty pounds of turnips, ten of parsnips, 
 fifteen of onions, twenty of cabbage, five of celery, and ten of leeks; 
 with one pound of aromatic seasoning, composed of four ounces of thyme, 
 four of winter savory, two of bayleaf, four of pepper, and an ounce of 
 cloves; the whole to be pulverized and mixed with the vegetables. 
  
 Each cake was to serve for one hundred men, and to be marked in 
 compartments of ten rations each, like chocolate cakes, instead of being 
 marked upon the wrapper, which is always torn off when the vegetables 
 are issued, and the soldiers cannot tell about quantity. This plan will 
 obviate that evil; for I had seen in camp piles of this excellent 
 vegetable rising pyramidically from the soldiers  '   canteen pan while 
 cooking, in consequence of their having put in the best part of three 
 days  '   rations instead of one. The dry rations are issued for three days
set it to stew and simmer gently for two hours. The general said:-- 
  
 "You must come and dine with us about that time." 
  
 "I should certainly much like to taste it, general; but I must be at 
 Balaklava before seven o  '  clock to-night. To-morrow I am coming over to 
 the General Hospital, and if you will be kind enough to order some to 
 be saved for me, that I may taste it when I come, I shall esteem it a 
 great favour." 
  
 "I will do so, Monsieur Soyer, but try and be here to dinner. We shall 
 dine about five o  '  clock." 
  
 The stew by this time began to simmer, and upon tasting the broth, I 
 found it already very palatable, without being too salt. I begged of the 
 cook to let it simmer very gently, which he promised to do. 
  
 We prepared to separate. Before leaving, I said, "The soldiers will be 
 able to do their rations the same way. I have recommended it to 
 Commissary Filder, who has agreed to it, and consented that the salt
rations should be issued the night before, thus giving the soldiers time 
 to soak the meat well. In consequence of this, it will require less 
 sugar; although it is rumoured that a quarter of an ounce is to be added 
 to their daily rations. They will then have as much as they require; and 
 when my new field-stoves are issued, they will admit both of the soaking 
 and the cooking of the meat; and various messes can be made, almost 
 impracticable in the small tin canteens now in use." 
  
 I then told the general of my visit to the French kitchens, and what I 
 had seen there. He agreed with me that they employed too many men, 
 especially in time of war. It is true that the French soldiers 
 understood cooking much better than our men did, but, nevertheless, 
 their system admitted of great improvements. We were then standing in 
 front of Sir John  '  s cave facing Sebastopol. Of a sudden all the 
 batteries ceased firing, and Sir John exclaimed, "Hallo! there is a flag 
 of truce hoisted on the Russian side, and it is accepted. No doubt it is 
 for leave to bury the dead. Now is the time to have a good peep at 
 Sebastopol, Mons. Soyer; you have two hours for that purpose." 
  
 The generals, staff officers, and a number of military men who were
to leave, were it only for a short time,   '  ces soucieux rochers, et cette 
 terre d  '  esclaves?  '  " 
  
 She smiled, and requested the captain to have her removed to her cabin, 
 which was immediately done. 
  
 Mr. and Mrs. Bracebridge, and myself, cheerfully obeyed the invitation 
 of an intelligent silver bell which summoned us to dinner at his 
 lordship  '  s table. I trusted a genuine appetite without the slightest 
 reserve to a well-provided and well-conceived dinner, regretting only 
 having lost the use of my substantial appetite. The wine was on a par 
 with the dinner--excellent. 
  
 Early morn found me shaking hands with my illustrious _confrere_ the 
 _chef_, in his turret-like kitchen. I thanked him much for his capital 
 dinner. "Pray what have we for to-day?" was the last political question 
 I put to him. I am unwilling to append the bill of fare, as it might 
 give an unexpected appetite to my readers, and thus induce them to drop 
 this light reading for something more substantial. That would not answer 
 my purpose, as I wish them to go on with the book without depreciating
they have also skewers of tripe and liver, heart, &c., tied on each side 
 of the haunch. The Pacha ordered some to be cut off for me to taste, 
 which I did with great gusto, and really much approved of their sound 
 judgment in turning everything to advantage, and making additional 
 dishes of what we civilized people so cleverly throw away. It was so 
 good, that I begged the Pacha to send a small dish up for Lord W. Paulet 
 and a few others to taste, as it was best while very hot. It had a 
 peculiar aromatic taste which imparts a delicate flavour, and was very 
 palatable. 
  
 The liver, which we of course use, was cut into small portions, and 
 mixed with the intestines. The lambs were dressed in the same way, and 
 were still more delicate: they were so perfectly roasted, that every 
 part of the animals was the colour of a lump of gold. 
  
  
 ORIENTAL WAY OF ROASTING SHEEP AND LAMBS WHOLE, 
 A LA TURQUE. 
  
 Though a primitive method, it is far from being a bad one. About a
board the _Baraguay d  '  Hilliers_ about ten, faint with fatigue and 
 hunger, having had no breakfast. 
  
 Such was camp-life at head-quarters. It was like swimming between life 
 and death. No one seemed to apprehend the least danger, while a 
 successful sortie on the part of the enemy would have placed every one  '  s 
 life in the greatest peril. So much for the unprofitable business of 
 war! 
  
 Having fixed upon a spot for my kitchen, I immediately sent the stoves 
 to the camp. As they happened to be close to the railway, they arrived 
 early the next morning. In the course of the day I reached my field of 
 battle, and to my great surprise found--what? Why, all my battery firing 
 for the support of the Highland Brigade. The stoves had arrived early 
 enough for the men to use them in cooking their dinners. Though I had 
 given special orders that no one should meddle with them until I 
 arrived, it gave me great pleasure to find that the men were using them 
 to the best advantage and without instruction. In the first place, they 
 could not possibly burn more than twenty pounds of wood in cooking for a 
 hundred men, instead of several hundredweight, which was the daily
consumption. Although I had not given them my receipts, they found they 
 could cook their rations with more ease, and hoped they should soon have 
 them for every-day use, instead of the small tin camp-kettles, and their 
 open-air system of cooking. The process was very unsatisfactory, being 
 dependent upon good, bad, or indifferent weather, and the fuel was often 
 wet and difficult to ignite. Colonel Seymour, whom I invited to see the 
 men using the stoves without tuition from me or anybody else, can 
 testify to the accuracy of this fact, having witnessed the process and 
 interrogated them upon the subject. 
  
 My reason, reader, for relating this circumstance, is because it 
 afforded me an assurance that I could render service to the army, and 
 that my exertions were of some use. I saw even further than that; for I 
 inferred that if a soldier, who is not a cooking animal, being paid for 
 other purposes--and that talent a peculiar gift conferred in a greater 
 or less degree upon humanity--could without trouble or instruction cook 
 well in the open air and in all weathers, the stoves would certainly be 
 useful in all establishments, from a cottage to a college. I do not say 
 anything of their use in hospitals, because they had been tried in those 
 establishments with full success, as far as military cooking was
concerned. The idea of connecting baking, roasting, boiling and steaming 
 crossed my mind; and this, I felt with confidence, would render them 
 beneficial and useful to the public at large. This idea I at once 
 communicated to the makers, and they have already acted upon my 
 suggestion. I resolved upon my return to England to bring them out at as 
 cheap a rate as possible for the use of small or large families. A 
 really useful and economical cooking stove is as much wanted in England 
 as sunshine on a November day--a stove by which all the usual domestic 
 cooking can be carried on, without having recourse to bricks and mortar, 
 and chimney-sweeps. Smoky chimneys, as well as other minor nuisances too 
 numerous to mention, would be thus avoided. Twelve pounds of coal, or 
 fifteen pounds of coke, will cook for one hundred men. 
  
 "War," said I to myself, "is the evil genius of a time; but good food 
 for all is a daily and a paramount necessity." These reflections led to 
 a further communication with Messrs. Smith and Phillips, of Snow-hill. I 
 took out a patent for the stoves. This I did not like to do before I had 
 introduced them to the Government, as every one would have supposed that 
 I wished to make money by the patent. The object of a patent, after such 
 a decided success, was to secure the solidity and perfection of the
cocoa round till melted, and forming a pulp not too thick, preventing 
 any lumps forming, add to it the remaining water, hot or cold; add the 
 ration sugar, and when just boiling, it is ready for serving. If short 
 of cocoa in campaigning, put about sixty rations, and when in pulp, add 
 half a pound of flour or arrowroot. 
  
  
 EASY AND EXCELLENT WAY OF COOKING IN EARTHEN PANS. 
  
 A very favourite and plain dish amongst the convalescent and orderlies 
 at Scutari was the following:-- 
  
 Soyer  '  s Baking Stewing Pan, the drawing of which I extract from my 
 "Shilling Cookery." The simplicity of the process, and the economical 
 system of cooking which may be produced in it, induced me to introduce 
 it here. 
  
 Each pan is capable of cooking for fifteen men, and no matter how hard 
 may be the meat, or small the cutting, or poor the quality,--while fresh 
 it would always make an excellent dish. Proceed as follows:--Cut any
previously well washed or peeled, or any of these mixed to make up four 
 ounces, putting them in the pot with the meat. 
  
 I have used the green tops of leeks and the leaf of celery as well as 
 the stem, and found, that for stewing they are preferable to the white 
 part for flavour. The meat being generally salted with rock salt, it 
 ought to be well scraped and washed, or even soaked in water a few hours 
 if convenient; but if the last cannot be done, and the meat is therefore 
 too salt, which would spoil the broth, parboil it for twenty minutes in 
 water, before using for soup, taking care to throw this water away. 
  
 _No. 17._--For fresh beef proceed, as far as the cooking goes, as for 
 salt beef, adding a teaspoonful of salt to the water. 
  
 _No. 18. Pea Soup._--Put in your pot half a pound of salt pork, half a 
 pint of peas, three pints of water, one teaspoonful of sugar, half one 
 of pepper, four ounces of vegetables, cut in slices, if to be had; boil 
 gently two hours, or until the peas are tender, as some require boiling 
 longer than others--and serve. 
 
not cease until the peas are reduced to a pulp. Indian meal must also be 
 put into boiling water, and be well boiled for two hours. Rice and 
 barley may be put into cold water, and be boiled until they can be 
 easily mashed between the fingers; the length of time depends upon 
 their quality.--All kinds of food made of farinaceous ingredients, as 
 Indian meal, peas, rice, &c., increase in quantity when made the day 
 previous, and require more water when warmed up. 
  
 It will be perceived that I have omitted all kinds of spice except in 
 those dishes which are intended expressly for them, as I consider they 
 only flatter the appetite and irritate the stomach, and make it crave 
 for more food; my object being not to create an appetite but to satisfy 
 it; and when those dishes in which spice is introduced are given to the 
 poor, it should only be done by the advice of the medical man; but in 
 those cases where they have been accustomed to have them, they must be 
 reduced by degrees until their taste is brought round to that point most 
 conducive to health. 
  
  
 NO. 1.--FOR TWO GALLONS.
to you how much the sick and wounded of this army, as well as those 
 who have their interest at heart, are indebted to you for the 
 improvement you have made in the cooking of these establishments. 
 Your alterations of the kitchens and stoves must add much to the 
 economy of fuel, which is of the greatest consequence here; and 
 your successful attempts, combined with simplicity of making such 
 palatable beverages and soups out of so small a portion of 
 ingredients, is highly advantageous. 
  
 Wishing you a pleasant voyage, and hoping to find the cooking in 
 camp as much improved as the cooking here, 
  
 I am, yours ever faithfully, 
  
 (Signed)      W. PAULET, _Brigadier-General_. 
  
 I am sure General Simpson will afford you every assistance in 
 carrying out your wishes. 
  
 
consider very desirable, so as to enable the men to have a change 
 in the way of cooking their dinner. 
  
 I have the honour to be, Sir, 
  
 Your most obedient servant, 
 F. C. EVELEGH, Lieut.-Col., 
 _Commanding 20th Regiment_. 
  
 The Assistant-Adjutant-General, 
  
 Fourth Division. 
  
  
 CAMP, SEBASTOPOL, _27th May, 1856_. 
  
 SIR,--Having had one of your field-stoves in use for some weeks, 
 for the men of the 23d Fusiliers, and all the companies having 
 taken their turn of cooking with it, I am happy to be able to bear 
 testimony to the great improvement you have effected in the
MONSIEUR SOYER,--The cooking-stove sent to my regiment on trial was 
 in use one week, and I am glad to be able to tell you was highly 
 approved of. 
  
 The soup was richer and superior in flavour, and the meat better 
 boiled. 
  
 It has the great advantage of cleanliness, also being capable of 
 service in the open air, needing only a shed to keep the weather 
 off those employed. 
  
 Yours very obediently, 
  
 W. H. WELLESLEY, Colonel, 
 _Commanding Royal Fusiliers_. 
  
 Monsieur A. Soyer. 
  
  
 
 
 CRIMEA, _31st May, 1856_. 
  
 I hereby certify that Soyer  '  s field-kitchen for fifty men has 
 recently been tried in the battalion under my command, in cooking 
 soldiers  '   rations, and that it appears perfectly to answer all 
 purposes. It possesses many advantages--viz., the small quantity of 
 fuel required, its lightness and portability, and requiring, when 
 in use, the attendance of only one man. It is in every respect 
 preferable to the cooking coppers generally used in barracks. 
  
 R. W. HUEY, Lieut.-Col., 
 _Commanding 2nd Bat. 1st Royal Regiment_. 
  
  
  
  
 CAMP, KAMARA, _1st June, 1856_. 
  
 I have much pleasure in bearing my testimony to the great advantage
 
  
  
 CAMP BEFORE SEBASTOPOL, FOURTH DIVISION, 
 _June 14th, 1856_. 
  
 Major-General Garrett approves highly of the cooking-stoves 
 introduced by Monsieur Soyer, which have been made trial of by all 
 the regiments of the Fourth Division, and have given great 
 satisfaction to the men, and have been approved by commanding 
 officers. 
  
 In a standing camp, or in quarters, they are admirable; they can be 
 put up in an instant anywhere, either in or out of doors, and they 
 never smoke. If attention is paid to the proportions of meat, 
 water, and the necessary ingredients, when cooking commences, the 
 most careless soldier can scarcely fail in making a good mess. 
 There is also a great saving of fuel; and as only a certain amount 
 of fire can be kept going, a steady and even process of cooking is 
 insured, by which, without any great skill on the part of the
 
  
 MALTA, _September 8th, 1856_. 
  
 SIR,--In reply to your letter requesting me to give you my opinion 
 on the subject of your military cooking stove, I now beg to give 
 you the opinion I have formed of them. 
  
 I will first mention that the stove was used by each of the 
 companies of the 47th Regiment in succession. The non-commissioned 
 officers and soldiers all spoke most favourably of it. 
  
 The portable cooking stove has, in my mind, many important 
 advantages to recommend it--one very important one being that it 
 can cook in any situation whatsoever, and in any weather, and with 
 the smallest possible consumption of fuel of any kind which may be 
 available--a very great consideration in localities where fuel is 
 scarce or difficult of access. I imagine those stoves would have 
 answered admirably for cooking in the trenches before Sebastopol, 
 taking little room, consuming little fuel, and showing but little
smoke, and cooking the food as securely and perfectly in bad 
 weather as in fine. 
  
 For field hospitals they would answer admirably, _especially as 
 carrying their own fuel_ on a march. The cooking for the sick could 
 commence instantly on the halt taking place. 
  
 I think here at Malta they would be very useful in many of the 
 encampments; in fact, anywhere that troops are suddenly placed they 
 (the cooking stoves) would be found of great use. Even they could 
 answer very well in the event of troops having on any emergency to 
 embark in vessels inadequately provided with cooking apparatus. 
  
 Fully convinced of their merits, I wish the invention all the 
 military success and encouragement it deserves. 
  
 I have the honour to be your very obedient servant, 
  
 M. J. HALEY, 
 _Colonel commanding 47th Regiment_.
 
 To Monsieur Alexis Soyer. 
  
 P.S. There is one observation I cannot help adding, which is that, 
 however desirable it is to give the army improved utensils for 
 cooking, little progress will be made in military cookery and 
 teaching the soldiers to turn such rations or other articles of 
 food to account in the most advantageous and ready manner, unless 
 it is some one person  '  s particular business to teach cooking. We 
 ought to have a non-commissioned officer for the special duty, and 
 who would be responsible for imparting instruction in that most 
 essential craft; recollecting a most important _maxime de 
 guerre_:--"C  '  est la soupe qui fait le soldat." 
  
  
 13, KENSINGTON PARK TERRACE NORTH, _July, 1857_. 
  
 DEAR SIR,--I understand that you are about to publish some 
 observations respecting your valuable labours in the culinary 
 department in the military hospitals of Scutari and the Crimea. If
you permit me, I shall be happy to add a few remarks, such as 
 occurred to me during the period I was engaged by the Government as 
 one of the physicians in the Barrack Hospital. One of the first 
 duties in the treatment of the sick was to ascertain the quality of 
 the food adapted to invalids labouring under every form of fever, 
 of acute and chronic diarrhoea, and especially dysentery. It is 
 in vain to attempt to cure these diseases by medicines only; a 
 carefully regulated diet was of the first consequence; and I was 
 early disappointed and embarrassed by the wretched state of the 
 kitchens and diet intended for the sick. I was in the habit of 
 frequenting the kitchen which belonged to the division of the 
 hospital in which I was doing duty, and observing the mode of 
 cooking, and soon found that the soldier-cooks were quite ignorant 
 of their art. I have constantly examined and tasted the mutton and 
 fowls, the soups, the vegetables, and the puddings, and I do not 
 hesitate to affirm that they were as unpalatable and unsavoury and 
 as objectionable as they could be. The practice of cooking the 
 fowls was to put them into nets--a dozen or more in one net; 
 several nets were placed in large coppers; and then to boil them as 
 rapidly as possible, with fierce heat. I have many times examined
