cooking is the chief cause of this error in judgment._ No doubt a well 
 broiled steak is more appetizing and delicate in flavor than some of 
 the cheaper cuts, but in proportion to the cost is not equal in 
 nutritive value; careful cooking and judicious flavoring render the 
 cheaper pieces of beef equally palatable. That expensive food is not 
 necessary to maintain life has been clearly demonstrated by the 
 traditional diet of the Scotch people with their oatmeal and herring; 
 the Irish, potatoes and buttermilk; New England, codfish and potatoes, 
 and pork and beans; the Chinese, rice, etc. Monotony of diet, however, 
 is not recommended, for reasons given in a previous chapter, and in 
 the countries where a special diet prevails owing to the climate, 
 nature of soil and markets, the results have not warranted us in 
 believing that it is as good as a mixed diet. From this necessarily 
 brief outline of the food question we have learned (1) that a 
 knowledge of the requirements of the body are absolutely necessary in 
 regulating a proper diet; (2) to furnish the food principles in a 
 cheap rather than a dear form; (3) to understand the art of cookery so 
 as to secure the full nutritive value and at the same time stimulate 
 the appetite; (4) the value of economy in regard to food principles. 
 When the housekeeper has acquired this knowledge she will have covered
the field of food economy. Prof. Atwater says: "When we know what are 
 the kinds and amount of nutritive substances our bodies need and our 
 food materials contain, then and not till then shall we be able to 
 adjust our diet to the demands of health and purse." 
  
  
 Cooking of Food. 
  
 It is sometimes asked, why do we cook our food? As many opportunities 
 will occur during this course of instruction for a comparison of the 
 customs and diet of the various countries, and the advance of 
 civilization in this direction, we will confine ourselves to the 
 definition of the term as it concerns ourselves. 
  
 Mr. Atkinson says, that "Cooking is the right application of heat for 
 the conversion of food material." 
  
 As much of our food requires cooking, how we shall cook it so as to 
 render it more palatable, more digestible, and with the greatest 
 economy of time, fuel and money, is an object deserving the most
careful attention. The art of cooking lies in the power to develop 
 certain flavors which are agreeable to the palate, or in other words, 
 which "make the mouth water," without interfering with the nutritive 
 qualities of the food prepared, to understand by what method certain 
 foods may be rendered more digestible, and to provide variety. 
 Monotony of diet and of flavor lessens the appetite and fails to 
 stimulate the digestive organs. 
  
 The chemical changes, produced by cooking food properly, aid 
 digestion, beside destroying any germs which may be contained in the 
 food. Nearly all foods--except fruit--require cooking. The 
 digestibility of starch depends almost entirely upon the manner in 
 which it is cooked, especially the cereal class. Gastric troubles are 
 sure to follow the use of improperly cooked grains or starches. (See 
 Chap. VII.) 
  
  
 Methods. 
  
 The following are the usual methods observed in cooking, viz.: (1)
 
 Broiling is cooking directly over the hot coals. A coating of 
 coagulated albumen is formed upon the outer surface. This coating 
 prevents the evaporation of the juices, which with the extractive 
 materials are retained and improve the flavor. Meat cooked in this way 
 has a decided advantage, in both flavor and nutritive value, over that 
 which has been boiled or stewed. There are, however, only certain 
 kinds of meat that are suitable for broiling. 
  
 FRYING. 
  
 Frying is cooking in hot fat. The boiling point of fat is far above 
 that of water. Fat should not be heated above 400° F., as it will then 
 turn dark and emit a disagreeable odor. Fried food, unless very 
 carefully prepared, is considered unwholesome. The only proper method 
 for frying is to immerse the food completely in a bath of hot fat. 
  
 BRAISING. 
  
 Braising is cooking meat in a covered vessel surrounded by a solution
of vegetable and animal juices in a strong but not boiling 
 temperature. Tough meat may be rendered very palatable and nutritious 
 by cooking in this way. The cover of the pan or kettle must fit 
 closely enough to prevent evaporation. It requires long, steady 
 cooking. The flavor is improved by browning the meat in either hot 
 fat or in a very hot oven before braising. 
  
 BAKING. 
  
 Baking is cooking in confined heat. Meat properly cooked in an oven is 
 considered by many authorities as quite equal in delicacy of flavor to 
 that roasted before a fire, and is equally digestible. 
  
 STEAMING. 
  
 Steaming is cooking food over condensed steam, and is an excellent 
 method for preparing food which requires long, slow cooking. Puddings, 
 cereals, and other glutinous mixtures are often cooked in this way. It 
 is an economical method, and has the advantage of developing flavor 
 without loss of substance.
from putrefying. Well smoked bacon cut thin and properly cooked is a 
 digestible form of fatty food, especially for tubercular patients. 
 Smoking improves the digestibility of ham. 
  
 SALTING. 
  
 Salting is one of the oldest methods of preserving food. The addition 
 of a little saltpetre helps to preserve the color of the meat. Brine 
 is frequently used to temporarily preserve meat and other substances. 
 Corned beef is a popular form of salt preservation. All salted meats 
 require long, slow cooking. They should always be placed in cold water 
 and heated gradually in order to extract the salt. Salt meats are less 
 digestible and not quite so nutritious as fresh meats. 
  
 FREEZING. 
  
 Food may be kept in a frozen condition almost indefinitely, but will 
 decompose very quickly when thawed, hence the necessity for cooking 
 immediately. Frozen meat loses 10 per cent. of its nutritive value in 
 cooking.
 
 REFRIGERATING. 
  
 This process does not involve actual freezing, but implies 
 preservation in chambers at a temperature maintained a few degrees 
 above freezing point. This method does not affect the flavor or 
 nutritive value of food so much as freezing. 
  
 SEALING. 
  
 Sealing is accomplished not only in the process of canning but by 
 covering with substances which are impermeable. Beef has been 
 preserved for considerable time by immersing in hot fat in which it 
 was allowed to remain after cooling. 
  
 CHEMICALS. 
  
 Chemicals are sometimes used in the preservation of food, but the 
 other methods are safer. 
 
valuable being the albuminoids: the gelatinoid of meat is easily 
 changed into gelatin by the action of hot water. Gelatin when combined 
 with the albuminoids and extractives has considerable nutritive value. 
 Extractives are meat bases, or rather meat which has been dissolved by 
 water, such as soup stock and beef tea. The object in cooking meat is 
 to soften and loosen the tissue, which renders it more easily 
 digested. Another object is to sterilize or kill any germs which may 
 exist and to make it more palatable. The digestibility of meat is 
 influenced by the age of the animal killed and the feeding. The 
 following table is given as an average of the digestibility of animal 
 foods:-- 
  
  
 TABLE OF COMPARATIVE DIGESTIBILITY. 
  
 _Commencing with the most digestible and ending with the least 
 digestible of meats and other animal foods._ (Thompson.) 
  
 Oysters. 
 Soft cooked eggs.
Cooking affects the digestibility of meat, which is evident from the 
 figures given in the following table (Church):-- 
  
  
 TIME OF DIGESTION. 
  
 --------------------+---------------- 
 |      Hours. 
 --------------------+---------------- 
 Beef, raw          |          2 
 Beef, half boiled  |          2-1/2 
 Beef, well boiled  | 2-3/4 to 3 
 Beef, half roasted | 2-3/4 to 3 
 Beef, well roasted | 2-1/4 to 4 
 Mutton, raw        |          2 
 Mutton, boiled     |          3 
 Mutton, roasted    |          3-1/4 
 Veal, raw          |          2-1/2 
 Pork, raw          |          3 
 Pork, roasted      |          5-1/4
Fowl, boiled       |          4 
 Turkey, boiled     |          2-1/2 
 Venison, broiled   |          1-1/2 
 --------------------+---------------- 
  
 It may be well to add here that animal food is more digestible when 
 cooked between 160° and 180° F. than at a higher temperature. 
  
  
 Cooking of Meat. 
  
 _(For more general information, see Recipes.)_ 
  
 In boiling meat two principles must be considered, the softening of 
 the fibre and preserving of the juices. If the meat alone is to be 
 used it should be placed in sufficient boiling water to completely 
 cover, and kept at boiling point (212° F.) for at least ten minutes, 
 so as to harden the albumen and prevent the escape of the juices. The 
 temperature should then be allowed to fall to simmering point (175° 
 F.). If the water is kept boiling it will render the meat tough and
dry. If the juice is to be extracted and the broth used, the meat 
 should be placed in cold water; if bones are added they should be cut 
 or broken into small pieces in order that the gelatin may be 
 dissolved. If the water is heated gradually the soluble materials are 
 more easily dissolved. The albumen will rise as a scum to the top, but 
 should not be skimmed off, as it contains the most nutriment and will 
 settle to the bottom as sediment. 
  
 STEWING. 
  
 If both meat and broth are to be used the process of cooking should be 
 quite different. In stewing, the meat should be cut into small pieces, 
 put into cold water in order that the juices, flavoring material and 
 fibre may be dissolved. The temperature should be gradually raised to 
 simmering point and remain at that heat for at least three or four 
 hours, the vessel being kept closely covered. Cooked in this way the 
 broth will be rich, and the meat tender and juicy. Any suitable 
 flavoring may be added. This is a good method for cooking meat 
 containing gristle. 
 
ROASTING AND BROILING. 
  
 When the meat alone is to be eaten, either roasting, broiling or 
 frying in deep fat is a more economical method, as the juices are 
 saved. The shrinkage in a roast of meat during cooking is chiefly due 
 to a loss of water. A small roast will require a hotter fire than a 
 larger one, in order to harden the exterior and prevent the juices 
 from escaping. Meat is a poor conductor of heat, consequently a large 
 roast exposed to this intense heat would become burned before the 
 interior could be heated. The large roast should be exposed to intense 
 heat for a few minutes, but the temperature should then be reduced, 
 and long steady cooking allowed. 
  
 Broiling (see broiling in previous chapter, p. 19.) 
  
  
 Varieties of Meat. 
  
 BEEF TONGUE. 
 
Theobromine                           1.73 
 Total nitrogenous substance          19.28 
 Fat                                  30.51 
 Water                                 3.83 
 Ash (mineral matter)                  8.30 
 Fibre and non-nitrogenous extract    37.48 
  
 ALCOHOL. 
  
 The use of alcohol is wholly unnecessary for the health of the human 
 organism. (See Public School Physiology and Temperance.) 
  
  
 Condiments. 
  
 Condiments and spices are used as food adjuncts; they supply little 
 nourishment, the effect being mainly stimulating, and are very 
 injurious when used in excess. They add flavor to food and relieve 
 monotony of diet. The use of such condiments as pepper, curry, 
 pickles, vinegar and mustard, if abused, is decidedly harmful. Salt is
the only necessary condiment, for reasons given in the chapter on 
 mineral matter. The blending of flavors so as to make food more 
 palatable without being injured is one of the fine arts in cookery. 
 Some flavors, such as lemon juice, vinegar, etc., increase the solvent 
 properties of the gastric juice, making certain foods more 
 digestible. 
  
  
  
  
 CHAPTER IX. 
  
 Preparing Food. 
  
  
 The knowledge of food values and their relation to the body will be of 
 little use for practical purposes unless combined with the knowledge 
 of how the various foods should be prepared, either by cooking or in 
 whatever form circumstances and the material may require. The first 
 requisite for cooking purposes is heat; this necessitates the use of
fuel. The fuels chiefly used for household purposes are wood, coal, 
 kerosene oil and gas. Soft woods, such as pine or birch, are best for 
 kindling and for a quick fire. Hard woods, oak, ash, etc., burn more 
 slowly, retain the heat longer, and are better adapted for cooking 
 purposes. 
  
 COAL. 
  
 Coal (anthracite) is about 95 per cent. carbon. It kindles slowly, 
 gives a steady heat, and burns for a longer time without attention 
 than wood. Stoves for burning oil and gas have become popular, and are 
 very convenient and satisfactory for cooking purposes. 
  
 OIL. 
  
 Oil is considered to be the cheapest fuel. 
  
 GAS. 
  
 Gas is a very satisfactory fuel for cooking purposes, but can only be
would be saved. All uncooked fruit should be thoroughly ripe and 
 served fresh and cold. Sometimes fruit is more easily digested when 
 the woody fibre has been softened by cooking than when in its natural 
 state, therefore a few simple recipes for cooking fruit are given. 
  
  
 APPLESAUCE. 
  
 Pare, core and quarter 6 or 8 tart apples. Make a syrup with 1/2 cup 
 of sugar, 1/2 cup of water, and a little grated lemon peel. When 
 boiling, add the apples and cook carefully till they are just tender, 
 but not broken. Remove them carefully, boil the syrup down a little 
 and pour it over the apples. (For serving with roast goose, etc., cook 
 the apples in a little water, mash until smooth, add sugar to taste.) 
  
  
 CODDLED APPLES. 
  
 Pare tart apples of uniform size; remove the cores without breaking 
 the apples. Stand them in the bottom of a granite kettle, sprinkle
thickly with sugar, cover the bottom of the kettle with boiling water, 
 cover closely and allow the apples to steam on the back part of the 
 stove till tender. Lift carefully without breaking, pour the syrup 
 over them and stand away to cool (delicious served with whipped 
 cream). 
  
  
 STEWED PRUNES. 
  
 Wash carefully and soak in water an hour before cooking, put them into 
 a porcelain or granite kettle, cover with boiling water and let them 
 simmer until tender. Add a tbsp. of sugar for each pint of prunes, and 
 boil a few moments longer. 
  
  
 CRANBERRIES. 
  
 Put 1 pint of cranberries in a granite saucepan, 1 cup of sugar, 1 cup 
 of water. After they begin to boil cook 10 minutes, closely covered. 
 (This may be pressed through a sieve while hot, removing the skins, if
cold put them into a glass dish, pour the liquor over them and serve. 
  
  
 BAKED APPLES. 
  
 Pare and core, without breaking, tart apples. Put them into a shallow 
 earthen dish, fill the cavities with sugar, add water to cover the 
 bottom of the dish. Bake in a quick oven till soft, basting often with 
 the syrup. (Quinces may be baked in the same way.) 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
  
 VEGETABLES. 
  
 Vegetables should be used very freely, as they contain saline 
 substances which counteract the effect of too much meat, and are the 
 chief source of mineral supply for the body. In cooking vegetables, a 
 common rule is to add salt, while cooking, to all classes growing 
 above ground (including onions), and to omit salt in the cooking of
vegetables growing underground. In cooking vegetables care must be 
 taken to preserve the flavor, and to prevent the waste of mineral 
 matter. 
  
  
 CABBAGE. 
  
 Cut a small head of cabbage in quarters, soak in cold water 1 hour, 
 drain and shake dry. Remove the stalk, or hard part, and chop the 
 remainder rather fine. Put it into a stew-pan with enough boiling 
 water to cover, and boil 20 minutes. Drain in a colander. Turn into a 
 hot dish, and pour over it cream sauce or a little melted butter, 
 pepper and salt. 
  
  
 CAULIFLOWER. 
  
 Pick off the outside leaves, soak in cold salted water, top downwards, 
 for 1 hour. Tie it round with a piece of twine to prevent breaking. 
 Cook in boiling salted water until tender, remove the string, turn
1/2 cup each of onion, carrot, celery (chopped). 
 1-1/2 tsp. salt. 
  
 If all these vegetables are not available, a little macaroni, rice or 
 barley may be added. Chop all the vegetables very fine, cabbage or 
 onions should be parboiled 5 minutes, drain carefully. Put all the 
 vegetables together, cover with 1 qt. of water and simmer until 
 tender, then add the stock, the seasoning, and allow it to simmer 
 about 10 minutes. Serve without straining. 
  
  
 TOMATO SOUP. 
  
 1 pt. of canned or stewed tomatoes. 
 1/2 tsp. salt. 
 1 tsp. sugar. 
 1 tbsp. butter. 
 2 whole cloves or 1/2 bay leaf. 
 1 pt. of stock. 
 1/2 ssp. pepper.
1 tbsp. minced onion. 
 1 tbsp. flour or cornstarch. 
 A speck of cayenne may be added if desired. 
  
 Put the tomato and stock in a saucepan and set on the fire. Cook the 
 vegetables in the butter for 15 minutes; then press out the butter and 
 put the vegetables in the soup. Into the butter remaining in the pan 
 put the flour and stir until smooth, then add to the soup. Allow all 
 to simmer for 20 minutes; strain and serve. 
  
  
 SPLIT PEA SOUP. 
  
 1 pt. of split peas. 
 1-1/2 qt. of boiling water. 
 1 qt. of stock. 
 Salt and pepper to taste. 
  
 Wash the peas in cold water (rejecting those which float) and soak 
 them over night. In the morning drain the water off and cover them
again with 1 qt. of the boiling water. Boil until tender, about 1-1/2 
 hour. Now add the stock and 1 pt. of the boiling water. Press the 
 whole through a sieve; wash the soup kettle, return the soup, boil up 
 once, add salt and pepper and serve with croutons. Dried pea soup may 
 be made in exactly the same manner, using 1 pt. of dried peas instead 
 of the split ones. 
  
  
 ONION SOUP. 
  
 1 large Spanish onion. 
 1 qt. stock. 
 1 tbsp. flour. 
 2 tbsps. butter. 
 Salt and pepper to taste. 
  
 Peel and chop the onion. Put the butter in a frying-pan, add the 
 onion, and stir until a nice brown. Put the stock on to boil. Skim the 
 onions out of the butter and add them to the stock. Stir 1 tbsp. of 
 flour into the remaining butter, thin with a little of the stock, put
all together, and simmer for 20 minutes. Add salt and pepper, and it 
 is ready to serve. 
  
  
 MACARONI SOUP. 
  
 1 qt. clear soup. 
 1 tsp. salt. 
 5 sticks macaroni. 
  
 Break the macaroni into small pieces and throw it into 1 quart of 
 boiling water containing the tsp. of salt. Let it boil uncovered 25 
 minutes. Drain off the water and add the macaroni to the hot stock, 
 cover and cook slowly for 10 or 15 minutes. A little more seasoning 
 may be added if desired. 
  
  
 OYSTER SOUP. 
  
 1 pt. oysters.
1/2 pt. cold water. 
 1/4 tsp. pepper. 
 Salt to taste. 
 1 pt. milk. 
 2 (l.) tbsps. flour. 
 2 tbsps. butter. 
  
 Put a strainer over a bowl and turn the oysters into it. Pour the 
 water over the oysters and stir with a spoon until all the liquid has 
 passed through the strainer. Reserve 1/2 cup of the milk, pouring the 
 remainder into the double boiler, set it on the fire. Put the oyster 
 liquor in a stew-pan, and heat slowly. Mix the cold milk with the 
 flour, and stirring into the boiling milk; cook for 10 minutes. When 
 the oyster liquor boils, skim it. When the flour and milk have cooked 
 for 10 minutes, add the oysters, butter, salt, pepper and oyster 
 liquor. Cook until the oysters curl on the edge and are plump. Serve 
 at once. 
  
  
 BEAN SOUP (WITHOUT STOCK).
 
 1 qt. dried white beans. 
 1 large tbsp. butter. 
 2 qts. water. 
 Salt and pepper to taste. 
  
 Wash the beans, cover them with water, and soak over night. Next 
 morning drain, put them on to boil with 2 quarts of fresh cold water. 
 As soon as they come to a boil drain this water off and throw it away. 
 Cover again with 2 quarts of fresh boiling water, add 1 ssp. of soda, 
 and boil until soft. Press the beans through a sieve, return to the 
 kettle, and if too thick add enough boiling water to make the soup 
 about the consistency of cream. Add the salt, pepper and butter, and 
 serve. (Minced onion, carrot, or celery fried in a little butter or 
 dripping, and added to this soup before straining, improves the 
 flavor.) 
  
  
 BOUILLON. 
 
2 lbs. lean beef. 
 1 small onion. 
 A sprig of parsley. 
 1 qt. cold water. 
 1 stalk celery, or 1/2 tsp. celery seed. 
 1 bay leaf. 
  
 Remove all the fat and chop the meat very fine. Put it into the soup 
 kettle with the water, bay leaf, parsley, onion and celery. Cover the 
 kettle closely and place it in the back part of the range for 2 hours. 
 Then move it over and let it come to a boil; skim at the first boil. 
 Move back and simmer gently for 4 hours. Strain, return to the kettle, 
 add salt and pepper. Beat the white of one egg with 1/2 cup of cold 
 water until thoroughly mixed. Wash the egg shell, mash it and add to 
 the white. Now add the white, shell and water to the boiling bouillon; 
 let it boil hard for 10 minutes, then throw in 1/2 cup of cold water 
 and boil 5 minutes longer. Take the kettle off the fire, strain 
 through a flannel bag, add salt to taste, and color with caramel. (See 
 recipe for caramel.) This is an excellent preparation for invalids. 
 
*       *       *       *       * 
  
  
 FISH. 
  
 Fish is an invaluable article of food. It provides variety in diet, 
 and while less stimulating than meat, is usually more easily digested. 
 Fish should be perfectly fresh and thoroughly cooked. The most 
 wholesome as well as the most palatable methods for cooking fish are 
 broiling and baking. The flesh of fresh fish is firm and will not 
 retain the impress of the finger if pressed into it. The eyes should 
 be bright and glassy, the gills red and full of blood. Fish should be 
 cleaned as soon as possible and thoroughly wiped with a cloth wet in 
 salt water, and should be kept in a cool place. Do not put it near 
 other food such as milk, butter, etc., as they will absorb the odor. 
  
  
 BROILED FISH. 
  
 Rub a double broiler well with a piece of suet before putting in the
a hot dish, add a tbsp. of flour to the fat remaining in the pan, mix 
 until smooth and brown; add a cupful of boiling water, stir until it 
 boils, add pepper and salt to taste, and pour over the steak. 
  
  
 BEEF STEW WITH DUMPLINGS. 
  
 2 lbs. of lean beef (cheaper cuts). Cut into pieces about 1 inch 
 square, dredge with flour. Put 2 tbsps. of dripping into a frying pan; 
 as soon as it is very hot put in the meat and shake or stir until 
 nicely browned. Skim out the meat and put it in a saucepan. Add 1 
 tbsp. of flour to the dripping remaining in the pan, mix and add 1 
 quart of boiling water; stir over the fire until it boils, then strain 
 it over the meat; add one small onion, pepper and salt to taste. Cover 
 the saucepan closely and let it simmer for 2 hours. Make the dumplings 
 by sifting 1 pint of flour, to which has been added 2 tsps. baking 
 powder. Add 1/4 tsp. salt and enough milk to make a soft dough. Lift 
 the dough in spoonfuls, placing them over the meat, cover quickly and 
 let boil 10 minutes. Do not uncover the saucepan while the dumplings 
 are cooking or they will fall immediately. Be careful not to allow the
and flour. Put a tbsp. of dripping in a frying pan, and when very hot 
 put in the cutlets; when brown on one side turn and brown on the 
 other, take out and place on a hot dish. Add a tbsp. of flour to the 
 fat remaining in the pan, mix and stir until brown; add a cupful of 
 boiling water, pepper and salt to taste, stir until it boils, pour 
 over the cutlets, and serve. 
  
  
 STEWED KNUCKLE OF VEAL. 
  
 Wipe the knuckle well with a damp cloth. Cut it into pieces. Put into 
 a kettle with 2 quarts of boiling water, add 1 onion chopped, 1/4 lb. 
 of chopped ham, and 1 bay leaf, pepper and salt to taste. Cover and 
 stew slowly for 2-1/2 hours (a half cup of rice may be added to this 
 stew). 
  
  
 JELLIED VEAL. 
  
 1 knuckle of veal.
1 blade of mace. 
 12 whole cloves. 
 1/2 cup of vinegar. 
 1 onion. 
 1 bay leaf. 
 6 pepper corns. 
 Salt and pepper to taste. 
  
 Wipe the knuckle and cut it into pieces. Put into a kettle with 2 
 quarts of cold water; bring slowly to simmering point; skim and simmer 
 gently for 2 hours; then add the onion, mace, bay leaf, cloves, pepper 
 corns, and simmer 1 hour longer. Take out the knuckle, carefully 
 remove the bones and put the meat into a mould or square pan. Boil the 
 liquor until reduced to 1 quart, add the vinegar, pepper and salt to 
 taste, strain and pour over the meat. Stand away until cold, when it 
 may be turned out and garnished with parsley and lemon. 
  
  
 FILLET OF VEAL (STUFFED). 
 
gelatine. A few simple recipes are given, which are suitable for 
 invalids. 
  
  
 BEVERAGES. 
  
 _Barley Water._--Take 2 ounces of pearl barley and wash well with cold 
 water at least 2 or 3 times. Put into a saucepan with 1-1/2 pint of 
 water, and allow it to boil for 20 minutes closely covered. Strain 
 and sweeten, and flavor with lemon juice; a little lemon peel may be 
 added while boiling if desired. 
  
 _Apple Water._--Take 2 or 3 tart apples. After baking, put them in a 
 bowl and pour over them 1 cup of boiling water, strain and sweeten to 
 taste; serve when cold. 
  
 _Flax Seed Tea._--One-half cupful of flax seed--which has been 
 carefully washed in cold water--to 1 quart of boiling water; boil 
 slowly 30 minutes, move to the back of the stove and allow it to 
 remain 10 or 15 minutes longer. Strain, and flavor to taste with lemon
strain, and flavor with salt and pepper. 
  
 _Beef Tea_ (_No. 2_).--Put a pound of finely minced beef into a glass 
 fruit jar, add a pint of cold water. Let it stand for an hour, 
 stirring and pressing occasionally. Place the jar in a kettle of 
 water; place over the fire and allow the water to reach boiling point. 
 Move back where the water will just simmer for an hour, keeping the 
 jar closely covered. Strain the beef tea through a fine wire strainer; 
 allowing the fine sediment to pass through, which should be drunk with 
 the liquid. Flavor with salt. (For an especially strong beef 
 stimulant, see recipe for Bouillon, in a former chapter.) 
  
 _Beef Essence._--(This method is highly recommended.) One ounce of 
 finely chopped fresh beef, free from fat; pour over it 8 ounces of 
 soft water, add 5 or 6 drops of dilute hydrochloric acid, and 50 or 60 
 grains of common salt, stir well, and leave for 3 hours in a cool 
 place. Strain the fluid through a hair sieve, pressing the meat 
 slightly; adding gradually toward the end of the straining, 2 ounces 
 of water. The liquid is of a bright red color, tasting like soup. It 
 should be served cold, in a small quantity at a time. If preferred
warm it must not be put on the fire, but heated in a covered vessel 
 placed in hot water. 
  
 _Chicken Broth._--Singe and clean a small chicken. One-half of the 
 chicken may be used for broth, and the other half for broiling or a 
 fricassee. Disjoint, and cut the meat into small pieces. Break or 
 crush the bones. Dip the feet into boiling water and scald until the 
 skin and nails will peel off (as the feet contain gelatin). Cover the 
 meat, feet and bones with cold water; heat very slowly, and simmer 
 till the meat is tender. A few minutes before removing from the fire 
 add salt and pepper to taste, also 1/2 teaspoonful of sugar. Strain, 
 and when cool remove the fat. When needed, heat the necessary 
 quantity, and if desired very clear add the shell and white of 1 egg. 
 Let this boil slowly 3 or 4 minutes. Skim and strain through a fine 
 cloth. A little lemon juice may be added to vary the flavor. This may 
 be poured into small cups and kept in a cool place; or if the patient 
 can take it some of the breast meat may be cut into small pieces and 
 moulded with it. If the broth is served hot, it should not be cleared 
 with the egg. 
 
_Mutton Broth._--Chop 1 pound of lean, juicy mutton very fine; pour 
 over it 1 pint of cold water. Let it stand until the water is very 
 red, then heat it slowly. Allow it to simmer 10 minutes. Strain, 
 season, and if liked thick, 2 tablespoonfuls of soft boiled rice may 
 be added; or it may be thickened with a little cornstarch wet with 
 cold water and stirred into the hot broth. Serve very hot. If there is 
 not enough time to cool the broth and reheat, the fat may be removed 
 by using a piece of tissue, coarse brown or blotting paper, which, by 
 passing over the surface, will remove any fat which cannot be taken 
 off with a spoon. 
  
 _Oatmeal Gruel._--To 1 quart of boiling water add 2 tablespoonfuls of 
 oatmeal, salt to taste. Boil 1 hour, strain and serve with or without 
 milk. Another method is to cover the oatmeal with cold water. Stir 
 well; let it settle, then pour off the mealy water into a saucepan. 
 Then boil the water. 
  
 _Egg Soup._--Put 1 ounce of sago with 1/2 pint of milk into a double 
 boiler, and cook 20 minutes. Strain through a sieve and add 1/2 pint 
 of beef extract (or Bouillon). When hot take it from the fire and stir
gradually into it the yolks (well beaten) of 2 eggs. Season to taste, 
 and serve. Chicken or mutton broth may be used. 
  
 _Albumen and Milk._--Put the white of 1 egg into 1/2 pint of milk. 
 Pour into a pint fruit jar, screw on the top tightly and shake well 
 for 1 minute, when it should be light and smooth. Serve at once. A 
 pinch of salt may be added if desired. 
  
 _Egg-Nog._--Beat 1 egg until very light, add 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar, 
 and beat again; add 2/3 cup of cold milk, mix well, and if ordered, 2 
 teaspoonfuls of brandy may be added. A pinch of salt added to the yolk 
 of the egg makes it more palatable. 
  
 _Orange Soup._--Soak the juice of an orange, 1/3 of the grated rind, 
 and 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice for 1/2 hour. Strain, and make the 
 liquid up to a cupful with water. Bring to boiling point and add two 
 level teaspoonfuls of arrowroot, moistened with a very little cold 
 water, stirring constantly until it thickens. When it reaches the 
 boiling point, add 1 tablespoonful of sugar, turn into a bowl and 
 stand away to cool. Serve very cold. (Any tart fruit juice may be used
for this soup.) 
  
 _Arrowroot Gruel._--Dissolve 2 level teaspoonfuls of arrowroot in a 
 little cold water, add 1 cup of boiling water, cook for a few seconds; 
 take from the fire, add a tablespoonful of sugar, 1 tablespoonful of 
 lemon juice. (One egg may be beaten, white and yolk separately, until 
 very light, mix them carefully and pour over the egg slowly one pint 
 of hot arrowroot gruel, made as above; stir until well mixed.) 
  
 _Rice Water or Jelly._--Pick over and wash carefully 2 tablespoonfuls 
 of rice, and cook in water until the rice is dissolved. Add salt and 
 sugar to taste. If intended to jelly, add lemon juice and strain into 
 a mould. Serve cold with cream and sugar. If to be used as a drink, 
 add enough hot water to make a thin liquid, and boil longer. A little 
 stick cinnamon may be added a few minutes before straining. Serve hot 
 or cold. 
  
 _Stewed Figs._--Take some choice figs, wash, then cover them with cold 
 water. Soak over night. In the morning bring them to boiling point, 
 and keep them over the fire, just simmering for 20 minutes, or until
the figs are plump and soft. Lift them out carefully, and boil down 
 the liquor until it forms a syrup. Pour this over the figs and serve 
 cold. Whipped or plain cream may be served with them. 
  
 _Jellied Chicken._--Take a young, tender chicken. Prepare and disjoint 
 it as for a fricassee. Put a bay leaf, a stock of celery about 4 
 inches long, and 2 whole pepper corns in the bottom of a bowl. Then 
 put in the chicken. Stand the bowl in a pot of boiling water, being 
 careful that the steam shall not drip, or the water boil over into the 
 chicken. Cover the pot closely and keep the water boiling until the 
 meat is tender enough to allow the bones to slip out. Remove the skin 
 and bones and put the remainder of the chicken into a pint bowl or 
 mould. Season the remaining liquor with salt, and strain over the 
 meat. Stand in a cool place to harden. (Do not add water to the 
 chicken when cooking.) 
  
 _Raw Meat Sandwiches._--Three ounces of raw beef, which may be chopped 
 very fine and rubbed through a hair sieve or scraped from a slice of 
 steak. Mix with it 1 ounce of fine bread crumbs, 1 teaspoonful of 
 sugar, pepper and salt to taste. Spread it between thin slices of
brown or white bread and butter. (A few drops of lemon juice may be 
 added if the flavor is liked.) 
  
 _Broiled Steak, Hamburg Steak, Broiled White Fish, Stews, Etc._ (See 
 recipes in preceding chapters.) 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
  
 A FEW GENERAL HINTS FOR SCHOOL CHILDREN. 
  
 "Too much attention cannot be given by parents to the diet of school 
 children, or by teachers to the diet of pupils under their care in 
 boarding schools and colleges. The average age of school children is 
 from six to sixteen years. During this time both mind and body are 
 undergoing development. Throughout school period the growth of the 
 body is continued until almost completed. There are unusual demands, 
 therefore, upon the functions of absorption and assimilation. The food 
 must be abundant, and of the character to furnish new tissue, and to 
 yield energy in the form of heat and muscular activity. The food
should also contain salts of lime to meet the requirements of 
 formation of the bones and teeth. Many children acquire habits of 
 dislike for certain articles of food, which become so fixed in later 
 life that they find it very inconvenient, especially when placed in 
 circumstances, as in travelling, where one cannot always obtain the 
 accustomed diet; it therefore is unwise to cultivate such habits, 
 which are often a serious obstacle to normal development. 
  
 "A physician is often baffled in the treatment of a severe disease by 
 the vitiated taste of the patient. Many cases of anæmia and chlorosis, 
 which are so commonly seen in young girls, are directly traceable to a 
 faulty diet. It should be the imperative duty of all teachers to 
 consider the responsibility of rightly developing the physical 
 constitutions of those entrusted to their care. They should remember 
 that the mind keeps on developing long after the body, and that the 
 period under discussion is one in which the constitution of the 
 individual is established for the remainder of life. At this stage 
 success in digestion and assimilation is of greater importance than 
 success in mental attainments." (Thompson.) 
 
An important consideration in school diet is to avoid monotony, which 
 becomes so common from economic reasons, or more often from 
 carelessness. It is so much easier to yield to routine and force of 
 habit than to study the question. The hours for study and for meals 
 should be so regulated that sufficient time will be allowed before 
 each meal for children to wash and prepare themselves comfortably 
 without going to the table excited by hurry, and they should be 
 required to remain at the table for a fixed time, and not allowed to 
 hastily swallow their food in order to complete an unfinished task or 
 game. An interval of at least half an hour should intervene after 
 meals before any mental exertion is required. Constant nibbling at 
 food between meals should be forbidden; it destroys the appetite, 
 increases the saliva, and interferes with gastric digestion. 
  
 The habit of chewing gum cannot be too strongly condemned, both for 
 the reason given in the preceding sentence and for its effect upon 
 the muscles and nerves. It is being more and more realized by the 
 public in general, that the breaking down of health at school is more 
 often due to impoverished nutrition than to overwork. Delicate 
 children should not be allowed too long intervals between meals, as
for instance, the evening meal at six o  '  clock and breakfast the 
 following morning at seven or half past. A glass of milk and a piece 
 of whole wheat bread and butter should be given--if they 
 awaken--during the night. Delicate children whose appetites are poor, 
 and who do not do proper justice to their regular meals, should be 
 given an extra allowance of hot broth or hot milk with bread and 
 butter, between meals. 
  
 These rules are applicable in cases of children who, during one or two 
 years, seem to develop with extraordinary rapidity, growing sometimes 
 two inches or more in six months. The demands of this rapid growth 
 must be met by proper nutrition, or serious subsequent impairment of 
 vitality may result. Such children should have their meals made 
 tempting by good cooking and pleasant variety, as well as an agreeable 
 appearance of the food. Meat which is carved in unsightly masses and 
 vegetables which are sodden and tasteless will be refused, and an ill 
 attempt is made to supply the deficiency in proper food by eating 
 indigestible candy, nuts, etc. Children often have no natural liking 
 for meat, and prefer puddings, pastry or sweets when they can obtain 
 them; it is therefore more important that meat and other wholesome
four lessons on the cooking of carbohydrates; then four on the cooking 
 of nitrogenous foods; next the batters, combining the two, and 
 introducing the use of fat, and so on. It is the purpose of this 
 arrangement to enforce the effects produced by heat on the food 
 principles, singly and in combination; to alternate the groups, so 
 that there is a constant review of principles already established; and 
 to give practical work of increasing difficulty. 
  
 The course in cooking should be preceded by a few lessons in 
 house-work; and at least one on the care of the kitchen. It is taken 
 for granted that the lessons are accompanied by a study of food 
 values, the cost of food, marketing, etc. 
  
 1. Simple experiments in combustion--to illustrate the structure of 
 stoves and the care of such stoves. Study of the fuel and apparatus 
 to be used in the school kitchen; practice in using the apparatus; 
 comparison with other apparatus. 
  
 2. Utensils--what they are, of what materials, and why. It is well to 
 have pupils make a list in note-book of simple kitchen furnishing.
 
 Experiments with the boiling of water, in Florence flask, in 
 tea-kettle, and in covered saucepan, using thermometer. Use of double 
 boiler. Compare with boiling water the temperature of fat hot enough 
 for frying, and also that of the oven. To illustrate the two latter, 
 croutons may be made. 
  
 3. Measuring--experiment with the cooking of starch in water; 
 cornstarch pudding, or tapioca or sago jelly. Develop the idea of the 
 effect of the boiling temperature on the starch grains, the bursting 
 of the grains, and the change in flavor due to continued cooking. 
  
 4. A cereal and a fruit,--say, baked apples. In the cereal, in 
 addition to the starch, is the cooking of the woody fibre. Note in 
 both cereal and fruit the flavors developed by heat, the cooking being 
 a continuation, as it were, of the ripening process. 
  
 5. A starchy and a green vegetable; as, for instance, potatoes and 
 cabbage. Here, again, are the two principles, cookery of starch and 
 vegetable fibre; again the development of flavor by heat. Cookery of
peas and beans would better be deferred until the pupils are familiar 
 with the effect of water on nitrogenous substances. 
  
 If time allows, a sauce may be made to serve with a vegetable, or this 
 may be given in the next lesson. 
  
 6. Vegetable soups, without meat stock. This is in part a review 
 lesson. Opportunity is offered here for the study of proportions, 
 several ingredients being used, how much vegetable pulp or juice to 
 how much liquid; how much thickening, and how much salt to a quart of 
 soup. 
  
 7. Eggs. Experiments to show the coagulating point of the white and 
 yolk, followed by soft and hard cooking of eggs, and possibly a plain 
 omelet. 
  
 8. Eggs and milk. 
  
 9. Oysters. 
 
