by human beings from their food. The three _primary_, solid cooking  s fats today are: 
  
 [Illustration: _Butter Lard Crisco_] 
  
 There are numbers of substitutes for these, such as butterine, 
 oleomargarine and "lard compounds." 
  
 The following pages contain a story of unusual interest to _you_. For 
 you _eat_. 
  
 See Page 233 
  
  
  
  
 _The Story of Crisco_ 
  
 The culinary world is revising its entire cook book on account of the 
 advent of Crisco, a new and altogether different cooking fat.
 
 Many wonder that any product could gain the favor of cooking experts 
 so quickly. A few months after the first package was marketed, 
 practically every grocer of the better class in the United States was 
 supplying women with the new product. 
  
 This was largely because four classes of 
 people--housewives--chefs--doctors--dietitians--were glad to be shown 
 a product which at once would make for more _digestible_ foods, more 
 _economical_ foods, and better _tasting_ foods. 
  
  
 Cooking and History 
  
 [Illustration] 
  
 Cooking methods have undergone a marked change during the past few 
 years. The nation  '  s food is becoming more and more wholesome as 
 a result of different discoveries, new sources of supply, and the 
 intelligent weighing of values. Domestic Science is better understood
The Banishment of That "Lardy" Taste in Foods 
  
 It was the earnest aim of the makers of Crisco to produce a 
 strictly _vegetable_ product without adding a hard, and consequently 
 indigestible animal fat. There is today a pronounced partiality from 
 a health standpoint to a vegetable fat, and the lardy, greasy taste 
 of food resulting from the use of animal fat never has been in such 
 disfavor as during the past few years. 
  
 So Crisco is absolutely _all_ vegetable. No stearine, animal 
 or vegetable, is added. It possesses no taste nor odor save the 
 delightful and characteristic aroma which identifies Crisco, and is 
 suggestive of its purity. 
  
  
 Explanation of "Hidden" Food Flavors. 
  
 When the dainty shadings of taste are over-shadowed by a "lardy" 
 flavor, the _true_ taste of the food itself is lost. We miss the 
 "hidden" or _natural_ taste of the food. Crisco has a peculiar power
of bringing out the very best in food flavors. Even the simplest foods 
 are allowed a delicacy of flavor. 
  
 [Illustration] 
  
 Take ginger bread for example: The real _ginger_ taste is there. The 
 _molasses_ and spice flavors are brought out. 
  
 [Illustration] 
  
 Or just plain, every-day fried potatoes; many never knew what the real 
 _potato_ taste was before eating potatoes fried in Crisco. 
  
 Fried chicken has a newness of taste not known before. 
  
 New users of Crisco should try these simple foods first and later take 
 up the preparation of more elaborate dishes. 
  
  
 Butter, Ever Popular
 
 It is hard to imagine anything taking the place of butter upon the 
 dining table. For seasoning in cooking, the use of butter ever will 
 be largely a matter of taste. Some people have a partiality for the 
 "butter flavor," which after all is largely the salt mixed with the 
 fat. Close your eyes and eat some fresh unsalted butter; note that it 
 is practically tasteless. 
  
 [Illustration] 
  
 Crisco contains richer food elements than butter. As Crisco is richer, 
 containing no moisture, one-fifth or one-fourth less can be used in 
 each recipe. 
  
 Crisco always is uniform because it is a manufactured fat where 
 quality and purity can be controlled. It works perfectly into any 
 dough, making the crust or loaf even textured. It keeps sweet and pure 
 indefinitely in the ordinary room temperature. 
  
 
special precaution than that of keeping them in a cool place. A very 
 effective method of preserving eggs for winter use is to rub a little 
 melted Crisco over each to close the pores, and then to pack the eggs 
 in bran, salt or sawdust, not allowing them to touch each other. 
  
 [Illustration] 
  
  
  
  
 _Methods of Cooking_ 
  
  
 There are seven chief methods of cooking meat--roasting, boiling, 
 baking, stewing, frying, broiling and poaching. 
  
 The first three are most suitable for joints weighing four pounds 
 or more, but not satisfactory for smaller pieces which are liable to 
 become hard and flavorless by the drying up or loss of their juices. 
 
Of the other three methods, stewing may be applied to fairly large and 
 solid pieces, but it is better for smaller thin ones, while frying and 
 broiling can be used only for steaks, chops, and similar cuts. 
  
 Braising and steaming are combinations and modifications of these 
 methods. 
  
  
 Roasting 
  
 Roasting is one of the oldest methods of cooking on record, and still 
 remains the favorite form of cooking joints of meat or birds. The 
 success of every method of cooking depends largely upon the correct 
 management of the fire. In roasting, this is particularly the case, 
 as a clear, brisk and yet steady fire is needed. To roast a joint it 
 should be placed before great heat for the first ten minutes and then 
 allowed to cook more slowly. The great heat hardens the outside of the 
 meat and keeps in the juices. If allowed to cook quickly all the time 
 the meat is likely to be tough. The fire should be bright and clear. 
 The joint should be basted about every ten minutes, as this helps to
The dry or saute method of frying is less satisfactory, in that it 
 is difficult even after much practice to produce a uniformly colored 
 surface. A small quantity of fat only is needed, and where the fat, 
 i.e., the heat, ends, a crack is formed in the outer coat, through 
 which flavor escapes and fat enters; the appearance also is rendered 
 unsightly. Flat fish can be fried fairly well by this method, or, 
 indeed, almost any thin substance, as thin edges are not affected in 
 this way. For pancakes and other articles of similar nature it is the 
 best method. It rarely is possible to use the fat from the dry method 
 a second time, except for dishes of the same kind, as the fat always 
 is more or less flavored by the food cooked in it. The most digestible 
 fat for frying and the best for results undoubtedly is Crisco. 
  
  
 Steaming 
  
 Steaming is a process very similar to boiling, for it is cooking in 
 the heated vapor of water. This practice as a means of cookery is 
 largely adopted in hotels, clubs, schools and hospitals, and other 
 large institutions; also frequently applied in ordinary home cookery
for particular articles of food requiring a very slow process of 
 cooking. An ordinary kitchen steamer, with a close-fitting lid is 
 generally all that is required for simple household cookery on a small 
 scale. The articles of food which are to be steamed are prepared in 
 exactly the same manner as for boiling. Many puddings, some meats, and 
 some vegetables are considered better if cooked by steam, and inasmuch 
 as the process of cooking is a very slow one, there is no fear of 
 the food being destroyed by too fierce a heat, as the temperature in 
 steaming never reaches beyond 212° F. Fish, meat and poultry cooked by 
 steam are as a rule tender, full of gravy and digestible. By steaming, 
 watery vegetables are made drier; tough meats are softened and made 
 tender; while farinaceous mixtures and puddings develop a totally 
 different flavor when baked or fried. 
  
  
 Braising 
  
 Braising is a combination of roasting and stewing small joints of 
 meat in a shallow stewpan. It is a favorite method of cooking with 
 the French, and is supposed to bring out an unusually fine flavor and
aroma. The pan in which a braise is to be made always should be lined 
 with slices of bacon, carrot, onions and herbs, upon which the meat is 
 placed. It usually is moistened with stock or stock and wine. The 
 more delicate meats, such as sweetbreads, fillets, fowls and turkeys 
 sometimes are covered with buttered paper; this is done to prevent 
 the heat from the top of the pan scorching or imparting too much of a 
 roast flavor to the meats which are to be braised. Occasional basting 
 during the process of this method of cooking is essential. When done, 
 the meat is taken up, the fat removed from the vegetables and gravy, 
 which latter is then reduced, strained and blended with some kind of 
 gravy or thin sauce. 
  
  
 Poaching and Marinating 
  
 Poaching is the name usually given to the process of cooking an 
 article by placing it for a few minutes in boiling water. Marinating 
 or pickling is a process with a formidable name with a simple meaning. 
 To marinate simply is to soak meat in a mixture for some hours, or 
 even days, with the idea of improving its flavor of softening its
fibres and making it tender. Vinegar, oil, pepper and salt are mixed 
 together and the meat packed in the mixture; sometimes a sliced onion 
 and herbs are added. The meat, of course, should be wiped first, but 
 not washed. 
  
  
 Cooking in Earthenware 
  
 Stone or earthenware cooking appliances are used to very great 
 advantage for various forms of preparing food. For the homely 
 _pot-au-feu_ the French housewife has used fireproof earthenware 
 dishes for generations, and does so today. But besides soups, various 
 savory dishes, and all sorts of stews are cooked in stoneware pots. 
 Indeed, so much has this form of cookery come into fashion that many 
 dishes are sent to table in the pots in which they are cooked. Cooking 
 in stoneware has no equal where slow cooking is aimed at, and there 
 are many dishes which one would do well to refrain from attempting 
 unless cooked in this fashion. These cooking pots are inexpensive, 
 and certain foods taste decidedly better if cooked in this way. For 
 braising, pot roasting, or stewing fruit and other articles which need
to be cooked slowly under close cover, the application of a moderate, 
 even heat produces far better results than if quick heat is applied. 
 For such cases the use of earthenware cooking pots is recommended. 
  
 [Illustration] 
  
  
  
  
 _Time Table for Cooking_ 
  
 Baking 
  
 Beef, loin or ribs, rare, per lb.          8 to 10 minutes 
 Beef, loin or ribs, well done, per lb.    12 to 16 minutes 
 Beef, ribs, rolled, rare                  12 to 15 minutes 
 Beef, ribs, rolled, well done             15 to 18 minutes 
 Beef, fillet, rare                        20 to 30 minutes 
 Beef, fillet, well done                         60 minutes 
 Mutton, leg, rare, per lb.                      10 minutes
Cheese Fingers 
 Vanilla Souffle 
 Coffee_ 
  
 _*Jugged Hare_--1 hare, 1 cup Crisco, 1-1/2 pounds gravy beef, 1 
 onion, 1 lemon, 6 cloves, 1 cup port wine, few forcemeat balls, salt, 
 red pepper and pepper to taste. 
  
 Skin, paunch and wash hare, cut it into pieces, dredge with flour, and 
 fry in hot Crisco. Have ready 1-1/2 pints gravy, made from beef, and 
 thickened with flour. Put this into jar; add pieces of fried hare, 
 onion stuck with cloves, lemon peeled and sliced, and seasonings; 
 cover jar tightly, put into saucepan of boiling water, and let it stew 
 until hare is quite tender, taking care to keep the water boiling. 
 When nearly ready pour in wine, add forcemeat balls, and allow to cook 
 10 minutes. Serve with red currant jelly. 
  
 For forcemeat balls, mix together in basin, 2 tablespoons Crisco,4 
 tablespoons crumbs, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, 1/4 teaspoon poultry 
 seasoning, 1/2 teaspoon grated lemon rind, seasoning of salt, pepper,
*Stewed Tomatoes 
 Cold Slaw 
 Cheese Wafers 
 Cocoanut Pudding 
 Coffee_ 
  
 _*Stewed Tomatoes_--1 can tomatoes, 2 tablespoons Crisco, 1 cup 
 breadcrumbs, seasoning salt, pepper and paprika. 
  
 Empty tomatoes into double boiler, add breadcrumbs, salt, pepper, and 
 paprika, and cook slowly for 1/2 an hour, stirring from time to 
 time. Just before serving add Crisco and stir till melted. While the 
 tomatoes will be ready with 1/2 hour  '  s cooking, they are improved by 
 cooking 1 hour, and are better still if warmed again after cooling. 
  
  
  
 January 7 
  
 _Clam Cocktail
dough from lying on fruit and becoming soaked with juice. 
  
  
  
 August 26 
  
 _*Beef Steak Pudding 
 Spaghetti with Tomato 
 Potatoes on Half Shell 
 Green Pepper Salad 
 Apricot Pudding 
 Coffee_ 
  
 _*Beef Steak Pudding_--Line a Criscoed basin with plain pastry. Mix 
 together on a plate 1 tablespoon flour, 1 teaspoon salt, and 1/2 
 teaspoon pepper for seasoning. Cut 1 pound lean beef in thin slices, 
 dip them in the seasoning, and place them lightly in the basin; split 
 1 sheep  '  s kidney, skin and cut in thin slices; dip them also in the 
 seasoning, and put them in basin, and pour over 1 cup of water for 
 gravy. Wet the edges of the paste on basin; roll out a piece of paste
Cheese Relish 
 *Boston Pudding 
 Coffee_ 
  
 _*Boston Pudding_--Cut 1 loaf bread into thin slices and spread with 
 Crisco. Crisco baking dish, put into it layer bread, sprinkle over 
 1 tablespoon each cinnamon, cloves, ginger, and nutmeg, then a layer 
 seeded raisins, and so on till dish is full. Pour over 1 quart milk 
 sweetened to taste, with 3 well beaten eggs, allow to soak 4 hours, 
 then add 2 cups more milk sweetened to taste. Cover dish and bake in 
 moderate oven 3 hours. Serve with wine sauce. 
  
  
  
 December 31 
  
 _Codfish, Delmonico Style 
 Roasted Leg of Lamb 
 *Chestnut Boulettes 
 Baked Potato Strips
Watercress and Green Pepper Salad 
 Cherry and Almond Parfait 
 Lady Fingers 
 Coffee_ 
  
 _*Chestnut Boulettes_--Mix together in a basin 1 cup mashed chestnuts, 
 which have been peeled after cooking in boiling salted water, beat 
 into this 1 tablespoon whipped cream, 1/2 tablespoon Crisco, 1/4 
 teaspoon salt, 2 egg yolks, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 teaspoon sherry 
 wine. Cool and fold in beaten egg whites, form into small balls, dip 
 in beaten egg, toss in crumbs and fry in hot Crisco. Drain and serve. 
  
 [Illustration] 
  
  
  
  
 An addition to the Crisco library, "The Whys of Cooking," or Questions 
 Asked and Answered, by Janet McKenzie Hill, of the Boston Cooking 
 School and Editor and Publisher of "American Cookery" is off the