THE principles contained in Paper-bag Cookery are not new. Woodsmen and 
 hunters have known for ages that if they wanted fish or game done to a 
 turn, a jacket of clay outside the meat which was protected from soil by 
 leaves or corn husks, gave, on removing the clay case, the very 
 quintessence of delicate, savory cookery. 
  
 Now within the last two years, a series of experiments has resulted in 
 the perfecting of a system of Paper-bag Cookery that revolutionizes the 
 old time kitchen drudgery with its unending round of greasy pots and 
 pans to be taken into account. 
  
 The advantages of this method of cooking are manifold. They may be 
 epitomized thus: 
  
 I. It makes food more savory and nutritious. 
  
 II. It is sanitary. No dust can reach the article being cooked and, the 
 cooking accomplished, the bag can be thrown into the stove or kitchen 
 scrap basket with no temptation for a lazy maid to tuck away a greasy 
 pan in the dish closet for the delectation of "germs" or roaches.
 
 III. It is economical. Not only does it save the time and strength of 
 the housewife with no aftermath of dirty cooking dishes to be washed, 
 but it prevents the shrinkage of meats as caused by ordinary cookery. 
 Nothing is lost, because there is no evaporation; careful experiments 
 prove that the weight of the cooked food tallies almost exactly with the 
 weight of the raw. There is also a great saving of fuel, some claiming 
 as high as 40 per cent., owing to the less time required in Paper-bag 
 Cookery. While this may be a generous estimate it is certain that 
 Paper-bag Cookery takes on the average, one-third less time than other 
 cooking. 
  
 IV. With ordinary care there is no danger of food burning, and no 
 deterioration in flavor if left in the bag some little time before 
 serving. 
  
 V. It is odorless; a great thing, this, for the flat-dweller who has to 
 cook in restricted quarters, taking care always that cooking odors do 
 not permeate the house. 
 
VI. Its price is not prohibitive. Indeed, it is most reasonable. 
  
 Paper-bag Cookery calls for no big outlay of money, no patent stove 
 oven, no complex apparatus or appliances. All that is necessary is an 
 oven of any sort--coal, gas, electric, wood or oil--a broiler, a paper 
 bag specially and sanitarily prepared,--grease proof and waterproof,--a 
 wood cookery dish if the food contains liquid or a number of separate 
 ingredients, and something to cook therein. Another convenience are the 
 wire clips for fastening the mouth and corners of the bag, which can be 
 purchased wherever the bags are sold. 
  
  
 THE KIND OF PAPER BAG TO USE. 
  
 While a sheet of heavy foolscap paper made into a bag serves for the 
 cooking of a single chop--it is self-evident that for larger 
 proportions, larger bags and bags from strong, absolutely sanitary paper 
 must be used. While there are bags and bags now upon the market, not all 
 fulfill these essential conditions. After much experimenting, the 
 Continental Paper Bag Co., of Rumford, Maine, and New York City, has
succeeded in producing the ideal bag which may now be found in varying 
 sizes, at all the large house-furnishing stores, grocers, butchers, 
 etc., or the bags may be ordered direct from headquarters. These bags 
 are put up in bulk in bundle lots, or in sealed packages of assorted 
 sizes. Each of the sealed packages contains thirty bags of assorted 
 sizes with the necessary clips and a small book of recipes with full 
 directions. Retail price 25 cents a package--fifty packages to a 
 shipping bundle. 
  
 In order to make paper bag cookery of the greatest value to housewives, 
 both as regards cleanliness and ease of operation, to say nothing of the 
 many cases where the flavor of the food is actually improved, the author 
 heartily recommends the use of specially prepared wood cookery dishes. 
 These dishes are most inexpensive, varying in price from about thirty 
 for ten cents to six for ten cents, depending upon size. They can be 
 purchased wherever the paper bags are sold,--department stores, house 
 furnishing stores, grocery stores, etc., etc., or may be obtained direct 
 from the Oval Wood Dish Company, Delta, Ohio. The food is placed in the 
 wood cookery dish and the dish is put into the bag. The advantage lies 
 in the fact that should the bag break, the food and juices are saved in
cooking, light for five minutes before the bag goes into the oven. The 
 average oven heat should be not less than 200 degrees Fahrenheit, and 
 may be 250 degrees. When the bag is put into the oven, the heat must be 
 at once reduced to 170 degrees. An inexperienced cook lacking an oven 
 thermometer can test the right degree of heat by placing a bit of paper 
 in the oven and noting the color it assumes. At the end of five minutes 
 it should be a light golden brown. 
  
 If the heat is too intense the bag will burst. Now carefully lay the bag 
 on the grid shelves or wire broilers--never on solid shelves, being 
 careful to _place the seam side of the bag up_. 
  
 This is imperative, as otherwise the juices of the food being cooked may 
 cause the seam to open, and distribute its contents over the oven. Once 
 placed in position, roasts and entrees on the lower shelf, about an inch 
 from the oven floor, fish on the middle shelf, and pastry on the top 
 where heat is most intense,--do not move or open the bags until the 
 schedule time of their cooking is accomplished. In placing the article 
 to be cooked, take care that the bag does not touch the sides of the 
 oven and that it is not too close to the flames. When the time limit of
cooking has expired, take up the bag from the shelf by drawing _with_ 
 the wires, not across them, which is apt to tear the bag made tender by 
 charring. Slip on to the lid of a pot or flat tin held just beneath the 
 grid and thence to the heated platter. To secure the gravy, stick a 
 pinhole in the bottom of the bag and allow it to drain on to the 
 platter, or serving dish. Rip open the bag from the top and throw the 
 charred fragments away at once. If to be served hot, arrange at once on 
 a heated platter or other dish, with its appropriate garnish. 
  
  
 POINTERS FOR PAPER BAG COOKERY. 
  
 I. In the case of a coal-heated oven with solid shelves a wire broiler 
 or "grid" should be substituted as the heat must be allowed to circulate 
 on all sides of the bag. 
  
 II. The size of the oven makes no difference but it _must be kept 
 clean_. 
  
 III. In the case of a fowl or joint see that there are no rough edges or
bones protruding that will be likely to pierce the bag. 
  
 IV. Do not season the article to be cooked too highly as none of the 
 seasonings are dissipated during the cooking as is usually the case in 
 ordinary boiling or roasting. 
  
 V. For cooking fruit, grease the outside of the bag. 
  
 VI. In removing the bag from the oven, draw with the wires, not across 
 them. 
  
 VII. To brown things at the last of the cooking, if necessary, puncture 
 a few holes in the top of the bag. 
  
 VIII. If a bag breaks in the cooking, as it sometimes will if the heat 
 is too intense, do not try to remove the article being cooked from the 
 bag, but slip the whole into a new well-greased bag. The use of two bags 
 is better than one when things require long cooking or for meats with 
 much fat or juicy dishes. While it may cost a bit more, it will save 
 much anxiety lest the bag burst.
 
 IX. To avoid having any chance drippings soil the oven floor, slip a 
 thin tin baking sheet or shallow dripper under the broiler, letting it 
 rest flat on the bottom of the oven. Put in a little hot water and this 
 steam will keep the bag moist and do much to discourage its breaking. 
 Indeed, in baking any kind of fruit cake, which requires slow cooking, 
 quite a little water in the drip-pan underneath is advisable. 
  
 X. In baking pastry and cake, a few tiny holes should be made in the 
 upper side of the bag before putting in the oven. This will brown the 
 surface of the cake delicately. 
  
 XI. Do not let the bag touch the sides of the oven or the gas flames. 
  
 XII. Wire trivets such as are sold at house-furnishing stores for use in 
 cooling bread and cakes will be found a great convenience. If a bag is 
 laid on a trivet, it can then be easily set in the oven and as easily 
 lifted out when done. 
  
 XIII. Never try to take things from the oven with the gas lighted.
 
  
 FISH and the paper bag method of cooking, go hand and glove. The thing 
 that every housewife hates most, particularly in a small apartment, or 
 in the Winter when it is difficult to get the house thoroughly aired, is 
 the pervasive odor that announces to every one in the house or block 
 just what you are going to have for dinner. Bagged, the odor is so 
 minimized as to be entirely inoffensive. Ten minutes airing after the 
 bag is opened will be quite sufficient to dissipate every particle of 
 odor. Furthermore, the fish itself is much more delicate and digestible 
 with all the flavor of fish and seasoning held in and united in a 
 harmonious whole. Of course, this presupposes a fresh fish to start 
 with, or one just out of cold storage, before it has had a chance to 
 thaw and develope ptomaines. In buying fish, look at the eyes and flesh. 
 Fish should be firm to the touch. If pressed by the finger the flesh 
 should rise instantly. There should be no impression left. If fish is 
 fresh the eyes are bright and the gills red and the scales not easily 
 rubbed off. Never lay fish directly on artificial ice, say the 
 fishermen, as the ammonia used in the freezing affects them injuriously. 
 Shell fish are not so apt to spoil as the other fish.
 
 The wood cookery dishes will be found of great value in cooking all 
 kinds of fish in paper bags. In many cases the flavor of the fish is 
 improved and the fish can always be taken from the bag with ease and 
 served whole if desired. 
  
 =Clam Pies.=--Line little tins or moulds with paste and put in a layer 
 of raw clams with a seasoning of butter and pepper. Dredge with flour, 
 add a spoonful or two of clam juice, cover with the paste, cut a hole in 
 the top, brush with beaten egg, slip into the bag, fasten and bake 
 twenty minutes. 
  
 =Roast Clams.=--Scrub the shells clean and slip in the bag. As soon as 
 the shells open, remove carefully and pour off the extra liquor in as 
 many small cups as you have persons to serve. Put a cup of the juice to 
 which a bit of butter and dusting of pepper has been added, in the 
 center of a soup dish, and arrange the clams around it. With an oyster 
 fork, the clams may then be removed from the shell, dipped into the 
 liquor and eaten. Serve very hot with quarters of lemon. 
 
=Crabs, Soft and Hard.=--While soft shell crabs are too expensive for 
 the purse of moderate depth, the hard shell crustacean is always in 
 order and greatly to be desired. Crabs, like all other shell fish, are 
 best when fresh from their native waters, and the individual who can do 
 his own crabbing and then eat the fruits of his labor with the flavor of 
 the sea still with them, has nothing more to be desired from a 
 gastronomic standpoint. In most markets crabs may be found both alive 
 and boiled. If alive, keep them in cold water until ready to cook. If 
 already boiled, use them as soon as possible as they do not keep well 
 for more than twenty-four hours. When ready to cook live crabs, take up 
 on a skimmer, handling gingerly so as to avoid a pinch, and drop into a 
 large kettle of boiling salted water. Cook gently fifteen minutes, or 
 until a bright red, skim out, and cool, twist off the claws, remove the 
 upper shell from the under, scrape the spongy portions from the sides, 
 remove the green portion and wash free from sand. Crack the large claws 
 and remove the meat. If you are to serve the crab meat in the shells, 
 wash and dry as many of the upper ones as desired. These preliminaries 
 attended to, the crabs are ready to use, in any one of a dozen different 
 ways. 
 
night supper these chops may be cooked early in the day, then simply 
 re-bagged and heated in the oven for the meal. 
  
 =Coquilles of Lobster.=--Cook two tablespoonfuls of finely chopped onion 
 in a tablespoonful butter for fifteen minutes. Have ready a cream sauce 
 made by melting together over the fire a tablespoonful each of butter 
 and flour, then thinning with a cupful of white stock that has been 
 cooked with a small bouquet of sweet herbs. Salt and pepper to taste, 
 and if you like add half a cupful chopped mushrooms and their liquor. 
 Add to the lightly browned onions two cupfuls finely cut lobster meat, a 
 tablespoonful minced parsley, one cupful of the made sauce and salt and 
 paprika. Cook together ten minutes, then put the mixture into the 
 shells, pour a little of the sauce over each, sprinkle with buttered 
 bread crumbs, bag, and bake about ten minutes or until they are browned. 
  
 =Lobster in Shells.=--Cut the meat from two cans of lobster into small 
 pieces. Sprinkle a few bread crumbs and a little salt and pepper over 
 it. Then put in shells. On each shell put a good sized lump of butter, 
 two teaspoonfuls of wine, some more salt and pepper and some more bread 
 crumbs. Put prepared shells in a paper bag, put in a hot oven and cook
ten minutes. 
  
 =Mussels au Gratin.=--Remove and clean the mussels, straining all the 
 liquor thoroughly. Then make this sauce: Fry two tablespoonfuls of 
 chopped onions in butter for a few minutes, but do not let them brown; 
 add about a teaspoonful of flour, and, while the onions are blending, 
 add the liquor of the mussels, stirring it in slowly. Cook this mixture 
 for a few minutes; then add a tablespoonful of vinegar, the same 
 quantity of chopped parsley and pepper and salt to taste. Butter a 
 shallow earthen or wooden baking dish; in the bottom spread a layer of 
 the sauce, lay the mussels on top of it and cover them with the balance 
 of the sauce. Over all this spread a thin coating of breadcrumbs; butter 
 and bake in bag until they have browned. Serve in the same dish in which 
 they were baked. 
  
 =Boxed Oysters (Virginia Style).=--Take crusty rolls, cut off the top 
 and scoop out the hearts leaving them each like a box. Fill the space 
 with oysters, seasoning with salt, pepper and butter and sprinkling over 
 them some of the crumb of the roll that you have removed. Put bits of 
 butter on top, then replace the cover. Set the rolls in the buttered bag
and pour the strained oyster liquor over them. Put into a hot oven and 
 bake for fifteen minutes. Serve hot. Lemon juice or a little mace is 
 sometimes used for seasoning the oysters. 
  
 =Spindled Oysters and Bacon.=--For two dozen large oysters have two 
 dozen thin slices bacon, and a half dozen slices crisp toast. Have ready 
 a half dozen slender steel skewers. Fill these skewers with alternate 
 slices of bacon and oysters, running the skewer crosswise through the 
 eye of the oyster and threading the bacon by one corner, so that each 
 slice blankets an oyster. Do not crowd. Lay the skewers in a buttered 
 bag, and cook in a quick oven ten minutes. Lay each spindle with its 
 contents undisturbed on a slice of toast, pour the drip from the bag 
 over them and serve at once. 
  
  
  
  
 CHAPTER VII. 
  
 FISH.
fish to them. Pour all into bag, seal and bake twenty minutes in a 
 moderate oven, half an hour. 
  
 =Planked Fish Bag-Cooked.=--Planked fish responds beautifully to the 
 paper-bag treatment, and there is no better way of developing the 
 distinctive flavor of any of the delicate white-meated fish. The plank 
 however should not be as thick as that usually required. It must be of 
 hard-wood, hickory, cherry, live oak, cedar or ash--well seasoned and 
 sawed about a half inch in thickness, rounded and tapered at one end 
 like an ironing board. This to accommodate the tail of the fish. If 
 cooking small fish use the oval wood cooking dishes made of maple wood. 
  
 Make it very hot in the oven or under the gas flame, then grease well 
 with vegetable oil, olive or the refined cotton seed, and lay on it the 
 fish cleaned, split down the back, seasoned, oiled all over with the 
 sweetest of vegetable oils or butter and spread out as flat as possible 
 with the skin side next to the hot board. Slip into the greased bag and 
 fasten tightly. If you use the gas oven for planking your fish, as most 
 of us do, turn on both burners until the oven is very hot. Then set in 
 the fish with a trivet under the bag the same as if you were cooking
everywhere as in the brown part. Cook the liver, gizzard and neck in a 
 small separate bag, wrapping each in a slice of bacon and seasoning 
 them with salt and pepper. Add a very little water, seal and put on to 
 cook less than an hour before dinner time. The slow heat will make them 
 very tender. Cooked with capon, they would be overdone. Serve with sweet 
 potatoes Southern style, or baked apples slightly sweetened. 
  
 =Chicken with Parsnips.=--Wash, parboil and scrape a quart of tender 
 parsnips. Split a Spring chicken down the back and lay in a buttered 
 bag, skin side up. Arrange the sliced parsnips around the chicken, 
 sprinkle with salt and pepper, dot with bits of butter until a half cup 
 has been used, and top with two or three thin slices of fat, salt pork. 
 Put a half cup hot water in the bag and bake to a delicate brown. Put 
 the chicken on a hot platter and arrange the parsnips around it. Make a 
 cream gravy from the drippings in the bag and serve with mashed 
 potatoes, currant jelly and beet greens. 
  
 =Chicken à la Baltimore.=--Take two small Spring chickens, prepare as 
 for broiling, but cut into joints. Wipe dry, season well with salt and 
 pepper, dip into beaten egg, then cover well with bread crumbs. Place in
a well-buttered bag, pour a little melted butter or oil over them and 
 bake in the oven twenty or twenty-five minutes. Serve with cream sauce 
 and garnish with thin, crisped slices of bacon and tiny corn oysters. 
  
 =Chicken Croquettes.=--This may be made from left-over cooked chicken or 
 from canned chicken. For a dozen croquettes allow one cupful of solid 
 meat chopped fine, a cupful of cream sauce, made by cooking together 
 four tablespoonfuls of butter and two of flour, then stirring in a scant 
 cupful of hot milk and cooking until smooth and thick. Combine chicken 
 and sauce, season with half a teaspoonful each plain and celery salt, a 
 teaspoonful of onion juice, a little lemon juice and chopped parsley. 
 Mix thoroughly, then set the mixture away to cool. When cool and stiff 
 roll in finely powdered bread crumbs so that every bit of the chicken is 
 covered and shape into cones, cutlets or cylinders. Have ready a beaten 
 egg to which a scant tablespoonful of milk has been added, dip the 
 croquettes in this, drain well, roll in crumbs again, and again set 
 aside to cool and stiffen. When ready to cook, slip in well-buttered bag 
 and bake in a hot oven twenty minutes. 
  
 =Paper Bagged Chicken.=--Split the chicken down the middle of the back,
spread flat, and put a skewer in each side to prevent it from curling. 
 Beat up a very fresh egg, with a pinch of salt, black pepper to taste, 
 an ounce of melted butter, a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce or 
 something similar and a teaspoonful of made mustard. Mix well. With a 
 brush glaze the chicken with the mixture. Place in a greased bag with 
 bread crumbs around and over it. Be careful that the skewers do not tear 
 the bag. Seal up tight and cook from thirty-five to forty minutes in a 
 very hot oven. 
  
 =Chicken Pie.=--Disjoint two chickens and cook until tender in just 
 enough water to cover. Remove all the thick skin and the largest bones. 
 Line a baking dish with good paste, pack the chicken in layers and dust 
 each with salt, pepper and flour. Pour in enough of the chicken liquor 
 to come nearly to the top; lay on a tablespoon of butter and cover with 
 a crust after cutting out a piece as large as the top of a small cup. 
 Moisten the edges and press together, then ornament the top with leaves 
 cut from the trimmings of paste. Bag and bake in a quick oven. 
  
 =Paste for Chicken Pie.=--Sift five level teaspoons of baking powder and 
 one level teaspoon of salt with four cups of flour and rub in one cup of
closely packed Hamburg steak is bound to be tough and dry. Better add a 
 beaten egg to hold the chopped meat together than press the small and 
 delicate particles of meat compactly. 
  
 Season lightly, brush over with oil or melted butter and lay in buttered 
 bag. Seal and roast for half an hour. Take up on a hot platter, season, 
 add a little melted butter mixed with finely chopped parsley and serve 
 hot with baked or mashed potatoes. A tomato sauce may go with the steaks 
 or a brown gravy made from beef stock. A pleasant change in the 
 appearance of Hamburg steak can be effected by shaping it to look like 
 lamb chops. When these are bag broiled with a bit of macaroni in each 
 end to simulate the chop bone they can be arranged to stand on a bed of 
 parsley stacked against a pretty bowl containing tomato sauce or stewed 
 tomato, a spoonful of which is to be served with each portion. The bed 
 on which the chops are to rest may be mashed potato or peas, if 
 preferred to the parsley. 
  
 =Pot Roast.=--While this does not eliminate washing the pot, the juices 
 and flavor of the beef are so conserved that instead of the usual dry 
 pot-roast it is moist and tender and so well worth the trouble.
 
 Peel and slice a good sized onion and brown in a round bottomed iron pot 
 with a piece of beef suet. Wash a four or five pound piece of bottom 
 round, place in the pot without any water and brown quickly on all 
 sides, turning it without piercing with a fork. When very brown add a 
 small cup of water, push it back and let simmer for one hour, turning 
 frequently. Season and cook for ten minutes longer, then place it in a 
 well-greased bag, seal and put in a hot oven on a broiler, adding about 
 a cupful of the liquid in which it was cooking, before sealing. Reduce 
 the heat of the oven after ten minutes and cook an hour and a half to 
 two hours according to size. Potatoes may be peeled and browned in the 
 gravy left in the pot. When done, the liquid in the bag should be added 
 to that in the pot and thickened for gravy, first skimming off the fat 
 if too rich. 
  
 =Rib Roast of Beef.=--Grease the roast lightly with drippings or 
 vegetable oil, season with pepper, but not with salt, dust lightly with 
 flour and place in well-greased bag, seal, and place in a hot oven, at 
 the end of fifteen minutes, reduce the heat one-half and continue 
 cooking for half an hour longer in case of a three pound roast or for a
cloth. Divide in nice pieces, dip in a batter made of one egg, one 
 tablespoonful of milk, salt and pepper to season and flour to make of 
 the consistency of cream. Arrange these pieces in a buttered bag. Seal 
 and bake ten minutes. Serve with fried parsley. 
  
 =Lamb  '  s Kidney.=--Skin, split, dip in butter and place on skewer. Dust 
 with salt and pepper, and place in buttered bag. Seal, place in hot oven 
 and cook eight minutes. 
  
 =Leg of Mutton Cooked in Cider.=--Buy the leg of mutton two or three 
 days before you wish to serve it. Take off the "woolly" skin that has 
 the strong taste on the outside and wipe carefully with a damp cloth. 
 Then rub with a mixture of spices, using half a teaspoonful each of 
 cinnamon, cloves, allspice, pepper and nutmeg. Rub thoroughly and hang 
 the mutton in a cool place for two days; then put in a well-greased bag, 
 adding four onions chopped fine, a cupful seedless raisins and a cupful 
 of sweet cider. Put in hot oven and bake half an hour, then reduce the 
 heat, and cook an hour and a half. Serve with a hot cider sauce. 
  
 =Mutton Chops and Sausage.=--Place two thick chops in a wooden dish with
three links of sausage. Season lightly with salt and pepper, lay two 
 strips of bacon over the top of the chops and seal in bag. Bake from 
 twenty minutes to half an hour in a moderate oven. 
  
 =Ragout of Lamb.=--Grease the bag well, and lay in a layer of sliced raw 
 potatoes, seasoned lightly. Put on top of the potatoes a layer of meat, 
 seasoned with salt, pepper and chopped parsley, and lay thin slices of 
 onion across meat. Add one-half cup canned tomato or tomato sauce, cover 
 the whole with another layer of sliced potato, seal, and bake 
 thirty-five minutes. You may use a wooden cooking dish here to 
 advantage. 
  
 =Roast Leg of Lamb.=--Trim nicely and rub over with oil, dredge with a 
 little flour and season with salt, pepper and powdered mint. Seal and 
 bake two hours. Serve with mint sauce. 
  
 =A Genuine Irish Stew.=--Cut two pounds of chops from the best end of a 
 neck of mutton, and pare away nearly all the fat. A portion of the 
 breast may be cut into squares and used, but a neck of mutton is the 
 best joint for the purpose. Take as many potatoes as will amount after
peeling to twice the weight of the meat. Slice them with eight large 
 onions sliced. Put a layer of mixed potatoes and onions at the bottom of 
 the buttered paper bag. Place the meat on this and season it plentifully 
 with pepper and lightly with salt. Pack closely, and cover the meat with 
 another layer of potato and onion. Pour in as much water or stock as 
 will moisten the topmost layer, seal tightly, and let the contents cook 
 gently for two and a half hours. You may use one of the large wooden 
 cooking dishes here. 
  
  
  
  
 CHAPTER XII. 
  
 PORK IN VARIED FORMS. 
  
  
 =Bacon and Apples.=--CORE, but do not peel, well flavored apples and cut 
 in crosswise rings about a quarter of an inch thick. Lay on thin slices 
 of streaky bacon in a well-buttered bag, dust lightly with sugar, seal
and cook eight minutes in a hot oven. 
  
 =Bacon and Bananas.=--Peel firm bananas, halve them lengthwise, dust 
 lightly with pepper and wrap each in a thin slice of streaky bacon. Put 
 in a well-greased bag, seal and cook in a hot oven ten minutes. 
  
 =Bacon and Calf  '  s Liver.=--Pour boiling water over thin slices of calf  '  s 
 liver and let stand ten minutes. Drain, pat dry and dredge with flour, 
 seasoning with pepper and a little salt. Lay slices of bacon in a 
 greased bag and on top put a layer of the liver, seal and bake fifteen 
 minutes. Serve on hot platter. 
  
 =Baked Pork Chops.=--Season with salt and pepper, then cover each side 
 of the chops with a forcemeat made moist enough to stick to them. Place 
 in a well-greased bag, adding a spoonful of water, seal and bake 
 twenty-five minutes. 
  
 =Pork Chops and Sweet Potatoes.=--Select six sweet potatoes of uniform 
 size. Peel, cut in half lengthwise, brush each piece all over with 
 melted butter and dredge lightly with powdered sugar. Place in a
thoroughly buttered bag flat side down. On top of them put pork chops, 
 seasoned, rolled in flour and from which the fat has been partly 
 trimmed. Seal and bake in hot oven on broiler for twenty-five minutes. 
  
 Pork chops cooked in this way are as tender as chicken, not hard in 
 fibre as they usually are when fried. 
  
 =Ham and Scalloped Potatoes.=--Peel and slice potatoes very thin. Put a 
 layer in the bottom of a buttered bag and on top of the potatoes a layer 
 of raw ham sliced very thin, and with the most of the fat trimmed off. 
 Sprinkle with a little flour. Add little bits of butter rolled in flour 
 and salt and pepper to season. Proceed in this way until the desired 
 amount is obtained, having the top layer of potatoes sprinkled with 
 flour and bits of butter. Turn in enough sweet milk or cream to come 
 even with the top layer, and bake twenty minutes or until the potatoes 
 are tender. The trimmings from the fat of the ham can be used in place 
 of the butter if preferred. One of the wooden cooking dishes is 
 convenient here. 
  
 =Ham, Spinach and Lamb Chops.=--Place two or more slices of ham in a
 
 =Spanish Sauce.=--For veal, lamb or mutton chops, broiled or fried fish, 
 chicken, etc. One large onion, one full section of garlic, one-half 
 large sweet, green or red pepper. Put in two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
 one teaspoonful of olive or vegetable oil. When effervescing stops add a 
 half teaspoonful of salt, and the onion, garlic and green pepper which 
 has been finely grated. When this begins to brown, giving it time to 
 cook rather well, add four good sized tomatoes, skinned and chopped, or 
 the thick part of one can of tomatoes. Let all simmer for fifteen to 
 twenty minutes with occasional stirring to prevent burning. Add salt and 
 pepper, paprika, or cayenne to taste, two tablespoonfuls tomato ketchup 
 and one dessertspoonful Worcestershire Sauce, before taking off fire. 
 It should be the consistency of good cream. If too thin, cook down, or 
 if too thick add a sufficient amount of _boiling_ water. Use red pepper 
 as a seasoning. 
  
 =Thick Tomato Sauce.=--Blend over the fire two tablespoonfuls of melted 
 butter and two tablespoonfuls of flour; add a little at a time, and 
 stirring all the while, one large cupful of tomato juice. Stir until the 
 mixture thickens; then season to taste with sugar, salt and cayenne
pepper. The seasoning may sometimes be varied by adding a little chopped 
 parsley or chopped onion or even both. For a thinner tomato sauce--use 
 but one tablespoonful of butter and one of flour to each cupful of 
 liquor. 
  
 =Sauce Tartare.=--Make first a good mayonnaise, then finish with the 
 addition of a tablespoonful each of chopped gherkins, olives, parsley 
 and capers; mix together in a bowl a half teaspoonful of salt, a half 
 teaspoonful mustard, a half teaspoonful of powdered sugar and a half 
 saltspoonful of pepper; add the yolks of two raw eggs that have been in 
 the ice box long enough to be as cold as possible and beat lightly; 
 measure out a half cupful of olive oil and have this cold also; add the 
 oil slowly at first, then as it begins to thicken it can be poured in 
 more rapidly. When quite thick, add three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 
 then the chopped ingredients. This will keep several weeks. Tarragon 
 vinegar may be used in place of the cider vinegar if preferred. 
  
  
  
 
cooked until smooth and thick. Season with salt and pepper and add 
 enough to the chicken to make stiff enough to handle when cold. When 
 cold shape into balls, roll in fine, dry bread crumbs and beaten egg 
 diluted with a little water, then crumb again and place in well-greased 
 bag. Seal and cook ten minutes. 
  
 =Mock Fried Oysters.=--To two cupfuls cold boiled rice, add one tin of 
 sardines, from which all bone and skin have been removed. Roll this 
 coarse paste into flat, circular cakes, put into well-greased bag and 
 bake fifteen minutes in moderate oven. 
  
 =Turkey Croquettes.=--Chop the fragments of turkey or other left over 
 meats very fine, adding for seasoning a small portion of bologna, ham or 
 tongue together with a bit of fine minced onion or onion juice, salt, 
 pepper and parsley. Make a thick cream sauce, allowing for a pint of the 
 chopped and seasoned meat the following portions: 
  
 Put into a saucepan a heaping tablespoonful butter and two level 
 tablespoonfuls of flour. As soon as blended, pour in a cupful of hot 
 milk stirring until thick and smooth. Salt to taste. Add the meat and
beat until well mixed. 
  
 Season more highly if desired, then set away in a cold place until cold 
 and stiffened. Form into cones. Dip in beaten egg, roll in fine crumbs 
 and place in a cold place again until quite dry. Bake in well-greased 
 bag and stick a little sprig of parsley in the end of each cone before 
 serving. 
  
 =Edinboro Hot Pot.=--You will need for this one pound of cold meat 
 sliced and browned in sweet drippings, one large onion sliced and 
 browned in the same drippings, a half tin of tomatoes, a half dozen cold 
 boiled or baked potatoes sliced and a little good stock made from the 
 bones and seasoning. Put a layer of meat in the well-greased bag or in 
 one of the oval wood cookery dishes made specially for the purpose. On 
 top of the meat put some of the onions, tomatoes and potatoes. Season 
 with salt, pepper and butter or vegetable shortening and pour over all 
 about a cupful of good stock. Seal the bag and bake for a half hour in 
 a moderate oven. 
  
 =Individual Meat Pies.=--Chop fine any cold cooked meat. Season highly
with mustard, pepper sauce and catsup, salt and pepper; add one egg; 
 moisten with liquor of oysters. Make a rich biscuit crust, roll out to a 
 quarter of an inch thickness, and cut in squares. Fill half of each 
 square with one tablespoonful of the prepared meat. Fold remaining half 
 of square over, first moistening edges with oyster liquor, and press 
 closely together. Put in buttered bag and bake twenty minutes in hot 
 oven, reducing the heat after the first ten minutes. 
  
 =English Pasties.=--Cut any cold meat up into small pieces, add a cupful 
 of sliced potatoes, raw, and an onion chopped fine, some parsley and 
 pepper and salt to taste. Stew this until the potato is done and thicken 
 with flour rubbed in butter. Make a crust of flour and salt, using 
 chopped suet and butter in equal quantities for shortening and a 
 teaspoonful of baking powder to each quart of flour. Roll the crust out 
 thin and cut into large discs--the cover of a two quart pail makes a 
 good pastie cutter. Put two large spoonfuls of the meat mixture on the 
 crust and roll over, pinching edges together like a fruit turnover. Bag 
 and bake one-half hour in a hot oven. If there is any of the meat gravy 
 left serve it with the pasties. 
 
 
 VEGETABLES. 
  
  
 WHILE no claim is made that all vegetables are improved through paper 
 bag cookery, experiments prove that quite a number can be successfully 
 cooked by the paper bag process. Vegetables of strong flavor as a rule 
 are best cooked in a large quantity of water and are not recommended for 
 paper bag cookery; only the more delicate vegetables that need to have 
 their flavors conserved. Dried peas, lentils and beans are excellent 
 cooked in paper bags but require a longer preliminary soaking than is 
 usual with other methods of cooking. 
  
 =Asparagus.=--Trim and scrape as for boiling; wash very clean. Tie in 
 bundles and put into a buttered bag with a little salt and a quarter 
 cupful of water. Seal and cook from thirty-five to forty minutes in a 
 hot oven. 
  
 =Asparagus With Cheese.=--Boil two bunches of asparagus twelve minutes 
 in salted water. Drain, but save the water. Put the asparagus in a
buttered bag or in one of the oval wooden dishes, scattering grated 
 Swiss or Parmesan cheese between the layers. Turn over all a cup of the 
 water in which the asparagus was boiled, sprinkle the top of the scallop 
 with a little cheese and a few buttered bread crumbs. Seal the bag and 
 cook fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. 
  
 =Lima Beans.=--Add to a quart of shelled Lima beans three tablespoonfuls 
 of butter or vegetable oil, a quarter pound of diced bacon or ham, a 
 little minced parsley or other seasoning herbs, and a teaspoonful of 
 flour. Put in a greased bag with a cupful of water, seal and cook an 
 hour in a moderate oven. 
  
 =String Beans, Oriental Style.=--String the beans, cut in two 
 lengthwise, then break in inch pieces. To every pint of beans, which 
 should be young and tender, allow one cupful boiling water, two 
 tablespoonfuls vegetable oil, one small onion sliced, and a half cupful 
 tomato. Salt and pepper to taste. Put all in greased paper bag and cook 
 forty-five minutes. A wooden cookery dish can be employed to advantage. 
  
 =Boston Baked Bean Cakes.=--These are made of left-over baked beans.
ingredients. Flavor to taste. Lastly add two well beaten eggs and drop 
 from spoon into greased bag or flat tin and place in bag. Seal and bake 
 in moderate oven about fifteen minutes. 
  
 =German Peach Cake.=--Make a rich baking powder biscuit dough and roll 
 out in sheets to fit a long biscuit pan. It should not be more than a 
 half-inch thick. Brush the top with butter and cover with slices of 
 peach arranged in symmetrical overlapping rows, or half peaches with the 
 rounded side up. Sprinkle generously with sugar, cover with another tin 
 to prevent the fruit from becoming mushy or hardened, put in bag and 
 bake about half an hour in a hot oven. This is a good substitute for 
 peach pie. 
  
 =Pork Cake.=--This is an old New England dish that has been relegated to 
 the background these many years, but is lately coming to the fore. A 
 gray haired New York physician, dining at my house the other night, 
 declared that his old Connecticut aunt  '  s pork cake was one of the 
 dearest remembered gustatorial delights of his boyhood. 
  
 To make it chop one pound of fat pork fine. Pour over it a pint of
flour sifted with two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Fold in whites of four 
 eggs beaten stiff, a cupful of nut meats, preferably English walnuts, 
 chopped. Bake slowly for about an hour in a gingerbread tin in paper 
 bag, making the cake an inch and a half or two inches thick; or else in 
 layer tins together with white icing. This will make four layers. 
  
 =Auburn Pound Cake.=--Beat to a cream three-fourths pounds of butter and 
 one pound fine granulated sugar. Add the yolks of nine eggs beaten light 
 and one pound flour measured after sifting and then sifted again with a 
 teaspoonful and a half of baking powder. Fold in the stiffly whipped 
 whites and flavor with vanilla, almond or the grated rind and juice of a 
 lemon or a wine glass of sherry. Pour into well-buttered thin tin mould 
 and seal in bags. Bake an hour and a quarter or an hour and a half in a 
 moderate oven. 
  
 =Raisin Nut Cakes.=--For raisin nut cakes for afternoon tea, beat six 
 eggs lightly, beating the whites and with an even teaspoon of soda, one 
 teaspoon of sugar creamed with a cupful of butter, a cupful and a half 
 of milk and three cupfuls and a half of flour. Add a cupful of chopped 
 walnuts, two pounds of chopped raisins, a wineglass of brandy, two
teaspoonfuls of baking powder and spice to taste. Make into small cakes, 
 put on tin in bag and bake in a moderate oven. 
  
 =Sour Cream Cake.=--Beat together one cup of powdered sugar and one cup 
 of sour cream, add two eggs beaten light, one and one-half cups of flour 
 sifted twice with an even teaspoon of soda twice, one teaspoon of 
 vanilla and one cup of seeded and cut raisins rolled lightly in flour. 
 Beat to make the batter creamy and bake at once in a rather shallow pan 
 sealed in a paper bag. 
  
  
  
  
 CHAPTER XX. 
  
 FRUITS. 
  
  
 =Baked Apples.=--WASH, but do not peel; cut out specks and bruises, 
 core, fill the bottom of the core-space with a bit of butter, over which
serving dish, and while still very hot pour over each a dessertspoonful 
 of rum. Let cool and serve with cake or crisped water biscuit. 
  
 =Cinnamon Apples.=--Peel, core and quarter six good cooking apples, 
 preferably greenings. Melt a tablespoonful of butter in a warm bowl and 
 stir the apples in it until coated with the butter. Mix a teaspoonful of 
 ground cinnamon with a half cup of granulated sugar, and stir into the 
 apples. Have a paper bag thoroughly buttered and put the apples in it. 
 Rinse out the bowl with a cup of hot water, add it to the apples, seal 
 carefully, place on a broiler which rests on a pie plate and bake in a 
 hot oven fifteen minutes. Half a pint of whipped cream over the apples 
 when served is an addition, but they are delicious, cooked in this way, 
 without it. 
  
 =Apples Stuffed With Figs.=--Steam tender as many figs as you desire, 
 chop into dice and roll each piece in powdered sugar seasoned with 
 cinnamon. Core large, tart apples and fill the cavities with the figs. 
 Bag and bake in a hot oven, adding a little hot water. When tender, 
 remove carefully to the serving dish and pour over them a syrup made by 
 boiling a half cup of sugar with an equal quantity of water. Flavor to
taste and pour over the apples. Serve cold with whipped or plain cream. 
  
 =Baked Apples and Nuts.=--For a half dozen large apples a good 
 three-fourths cup of nut meats, butternuts, black walnuts or hickory 
 nuts--will be required. Chop the meats fine and add a half cup of sugar. 
 Core the apples and fill the centres with the nuts and sugar. Put in a 
 rather deep pan, with a cupful of boiling water added, bag and bake. 
 When tender remove carefully, place in a pretty dish, pour the juice 
 over the apples, and crown with whipped cream or a meringue made from 
 the whites of two eggs. 
  
 =Raisin Apples.=--A simple dessert enjoyed by the children consists of 
 apples, cored and each cavity filled with sugar, nutmeg, a bit of butter 
 and two or three raisins. Add one cupful of hot water, put in bag and 
 bake in a slow oven. This may be varied occasionally by placing a 
 meringue on the top of each apple when done, and cooking in a slow oven 
 for seven minutes longer. Serve cold. 
  
 =Baked Apple Sauce.=--Peel and core firm apples of good flavor. Stick 
 three cloves in each and put bits of mace and cinnamon in the core
=Baked Peaches.=--Pour boiling water over the fruit, then rub off the 
 skins and place in buttered bag without removing the pits. Add a 
 teaspoonful of water for each peach, seal and bake about twenty minutes 
 in a hot oven. When done, sweeten to taste and set aside to chill before 
 using. Serve with sweet cream. 
  
 =Baked Pears.=--Select ripe, fine-flavored fruit, snip out the blossom 
 end and stick in a clove. If the skin is thin, do not peel, but if 
 tough, remove, put in buttered bag with a little water, seal and cook 
 from fifteen to thirty minutes according to the quality of the fruit. 
  
 =Baked Plums.=--Put in buttered bag with a little water and cook twenty 
 or twenty-five minutes. Sweeten to taste when done. 
  
 =Baked Quinces.=--Wash, core and peel, fill the centers with sugar and 
 put in greased bag with two tablespoonfuls of water allowed for each 
 quince. Seal and bake slowly for an hour, until the quince is tender but 
 not mushy. Serve with the quince syrup and a spoonful of whipped cream 
 on top of each quince. 
 
=Baked Raisins.=--Remove stems, clean well, put in a colander and wash 
 thoroughly. Put in buttered bag with a cupful of water for each cupful 
 of raisins. Seal and cook slowly for half an hour. A mixture of dried 
 apricots, prunes and cherries is nice with the raisins, but these fruits 
 need long soaking in cold water before adding to the raisins and 
 cooking. 
  
 =Chestnut Patties.=--Beat together, until smooth, one egg and one cupful 
 of pulverized sugar. Add one cupful of chestnut meats that have been put 
 through a nut grinder, five tablespoonfuls of flour and one teaspoonful 
 of baking powder. Beat lightly, then drop by spoonfuls on buttered tins. 
 Dust with pulverized sugar and cinnamon. Put in bag and bake in a quick 
 oven. 
  
  
  
  
 CHAPTER XXI. 
  
 PASTRY.
 
  
 USE tin or agate pie plates for paper bag cookery. Line with a delicate 
 crust, and prick the bottom with a fork. Turn in whatever filling you 
 elect to have, and put on top crust or the latticed bars. Cut a cross in 
 the center of a solid crust and turn back the points or prick with a 
 fork. Any pie can be baked in a paper bag with advantage. Cook two pies 
 at once, shifting midway in the cooking from the upper to the lower 
 shelves and vice versa. Have the oven hot when the pies go in, but 
 reduce the heat as soon as the bag corners turn brown. Average pies 
 require about half an hour for the baking. 
  
 =Plain Pie Crust.=--For each pie allow a heaping cupful of pastry flour 
 and sift into a cold bowl with a half teaspoonful of salt and a 
 saltspoonful of baking powder. Have ready a quarter cupful of butter 
 that has been washed in cold water, then chilled on the ice. Work into 
 the sifted flour a quarter cupful of lard or vegetable shortening, using 
 the tips of the fingers or a case knife. As soon as the flour begins to 
 feel like coarse meal, moisten to a dough with cold water. Add a little 
 at a time, handling the crust as lightly as possible. It will take about
superior richness. For its baking a pudding dish at least three and a 
 half inches deep is chosen. This is lined with a rich crust, a square 
 of the dough being taken from the bottom. Now peel enough ripe and 
 luscious peaches to fill the dish, tearing them apart but leaving the 
 pits in to impart their superior flavor. Sweeten abundantly, add about 
 two tablespoonfuls water, and a tablespoonful of butter cut in bits. 
 Cover with a layer of puff paste, sealing it down carefully on the sides 
 to the border, so as to lose none of the juices. Bag and bake in a quick 
 oven for forty-five minutes. When nearly done, draw to the edge of the 
 oven, open the top of the bag, dust with powdered sugar and set back a 
 few moments longer for the crust to glaze. This is perfection, whether 
 eaten hot or cold, serving it alone, with cream or with a hard sauce as 
 preferred. 
  
 =Peach Roly Poly.=--Make a sweet biscuit dough. Roll out thin and spread 
 with a layer of sliced or chopped peaches and roll the dough over as for 
 jelly roll. Put in buttered bag and bake in a moderate oven. 
  
 =Plum Roly Poly.=--Wash and stew any ripe sound plums and remove the 
 pits. If very juicy, drain away the most of the juice. Sweeten to taste.
Make a good biscuit dough or puff paste as preferred, roll out in long 
 strips, sprinkle sugar on the upper side, then spread thinly with the 
 stewed plums, roll up and pinch the ends tight. Put in buttered bag and 
 cook thirty minutes. Serve with a sauce made from the extra juice 
 sweetened and slightly thickened with a little cornstarch. 
  
 =Rye Bread Pudding.=--Toast stale rye bread to a golden brown, then roll 
 into fine crumbs. Brush small custard cups or a mould with melted 
 butter, sprinkle over a few currants, raisins, prunes (cut fine) or 
 figs, then fill with crumbs. Beat three eggs without separating until 
 light, add three tablespoonfuls of sugar, a pint of milk (with vanilla 
 or nutmeg to flavor) and pour carefully over the bread crumbs. Let them 
 stand ten minutes, until the mixture has soaked into the crumbs; then 
 set in a paper bag in a pan of cold water and cook like a custard in the 
 oven. It will take about half an hour. Test by slipping the blade of the 
 knife down the side of the bag. If it comes up clear, the pudding is 
 sufficiently baked. Serve hot with lemon or egg sauce or fruit syrup. 
  
 =Tapioca Apple Pudding.=--Soak one cupful tapioca in three pints cold 
 water over night. In the morning put on to boil and cook twenty or
thirty minutes, until it looks clear. Add a quart and a half peeled and 
 quartered apples, one cup of sugar, a teaspoonful salt, and lemon juice 
 or extract to flavor. Turn into a buttered dish, put in bag and bake an 
 hour in a moderate oven. When cold serve with cream and sugar. 
  
 =A White Plum Pudding.=--Beat to a cream a half cup of sugar and 
 three-quarters cup of butter. Add four eggs well beaten, a saltspoonful 
 of salt, two cups milk, a quart of flour mixed with one-half cup 
 shredded citron, one-half cup currants, a teaspoonful grated nutmeg and 
 a teaspoonful vanilla. Just before turning into the mould stir in two 
 even tablespoonfuls pure baking powder. Put in bag, surround with water, 
 steam two hours and serve with any good sauce. 
  
  
  
 PUDDING SAUCES. 
  
 =Caramel Sauce.=--Put one-half cupful of sugar over the fire in a clean, 
 smooth saucepan and stir until it becomes a light brown color. Pour in 
 a half cupful of boiling water, simmer ten minutes, add a tablespoonful
of butter and serve with pudding or fritters. 
  
 =Cornstarch Pudding Sauce.=--Beat together one tablespoonful cornstarch, 
 two tablespoonfuls of butter and a half cupful of brown sugar. Set on 
 the stove until heated, then turn in hot water a little at a time and 
 cook until consistency required. Add four tablespoonfuls of grape or 
 apple jelly with spices or other flavoring to taste, and serve hot. 
  
 =Cream Sauce.=--Mix together two tablespoonfuls each of cornstarch and 
 sugar. Add one beaten egg and cook in double boiler until thickened. Add 
 a tablespoonful of butter and flavoring to taste. 
  
 =Cream Sauce à la Hotel Astor.=--Beat together one cupful each sugar and 
 butter until perfectly blended. Add cream until mixture is like thick 
 cream, dust with nutmeg or mace and serve. 
  
 =Delicious Fruit Sauce for Plum Pudding.=--Boil together one cupful of 
 water and two of sugar for ten minutes. Thicken slightly with three 
 level teaspoonfuls arrow root or two teaspoonfuls corn starch mixed with 
 a little cold water, simmer five minutes, then add a half cupful candied
cherries, cut in halves and a few pistache nuts quartered. Flavor with 
 nutmeg or vanilla as preferred. 
  
 =Hard Sauce for Plum Pudding.=--Beat one cupful of butter to a cream. 
 Add sugar gradually, two cupfuls in all, beating until very light. Add 
 the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff dry foam. Arrange on a flat 
 glass dish and grate a little nutmeg over it. 
  
 =Molasses Sauce.=--To make molasses sauce, which is an excellent 
 accompaniment to a plain rice or apple pudding, mix together one cupful 
 of molasses, a tablespoonful of vinegar or the juice of one lemon, a 
 saltspoonful of salt and a tablespoonful of butter. Boil ten minutes. 
  
  
  
  
 MENUS AND INDEXES 
  
  
 
MADE expressly for Paper Bag Cooking. 
  
 The perfected product of much investigation and many experiments. 
  
  
 CONTINENTAL Cookery Bags are White, Sanitary, Strong, Waterproof, 
 Greaseproof and entirely Odorless. In every way they are Safe and 
 Suitable. 
  
 Packages of 30 Bags, Conveniently Assorted, with Special Clips and Book 
 of Directions and Recipes, 25c. A variety of sizes at the same price per 
 package. 
  
 CONTINENTAL PAPER BAG CO. 
 WHITEHALL BUILDING, NEW YORK 
  
  
  
  
 OVAL WOOD Cookery Dishes
 
 Should be Used in All Paper Bag Cooking 
  
 _They are as Important as the Bags_ 
  
 Because they conserve all the delicate meat and vegetable juices, adding 
 a savory flavor to everything cooked in them. 
  
 With our Cookery Dishes you can give to all meats the delicious taste 
 which has heretofore been secured only by planking steaks and fish. 
  
 The sweet wood--we use sugar-maple only--is always fresh, giving an 
 effect that cannot be maintained permanently by the ordinary plank. 
  
 Everything that can be cooked in a paper bag tastes better if you use 
 our Cookery Dishes also. 
  
 ASK YOUR DEALER ABOUT THEM 
  
 They are packed in cartons suitable for all purposes, assuring the
delivery of clean and sanitary dishes in your kitchen. 
  
 THE OVAL WOOD DISH COMPANY 
 Delta, Ohio 
 127 Franklin St., New York      436 Gravier St., New Orleans 
 Manufacturers of "O.W.D." Butter Dishes, 
 Picnic Plates, and Clothes Pins 
  
  
  
  
 Refined Vegetable Oil 
  
 Is recommended by physicians and culinary experts in place of butter and 
 animal fats for all cooking; it is more healthful and economical. 
  
 Wesson Snowdrift Oil The Best Refined Vegetable Oil Is Unexcelled for 
 Greasing Paper Bags 
  
 You can buy many different kinds of vegetable oils, but 