NOTE.--When cooking products in pint or half-pint jars deduct three or
 four minutes from the time given above. When cooking in two-quart jars
 add 3 or 4 minutes to time. The estimates given are for quart jars.
 
 
 
 
 CHAPTER IV
 
 VEGETABLES
 

 It is practical to can all vegetables, even such difficult ones as
 corn, peas and beans, by the cold-pack method of canning without using
 any preservatives, if you will follow all directions, instructions and
 the time-table accurately. Vegetable canning is a little more
 complicated than fruit canning.
 
 
 TOMATOES
 
 Every one likes canned tomatoes. In many homes more tomatoes are
 canned than any other product. The housewife uses them for soups, for
 sauces and for seasoning many meat dishes. Some women say: "I can
 preserve everything but tomatoes. They always spoil. What do I do
 wrong?" If the following directions are followed tomatoes will not
 spoil.
 
 Tomatoes really are the easiest vegetable to can, because the period
 of sterilization is short, and many jars may be canned in a day, or if
 one is very busy a few jars may be canned daily without the
expenditure of a great deal of time.
 
 The best tomatoes for canning are those of moderate size, smooth and
 uniformly ripe. When a tomato ripens unevenly or when it is misshapen,
 it is difficult to peel, and the percentage of waste is high. Tomatoes
 should not be picked when they are green or partly ripe, for the
 flavor will not be so good as when they are allowed to remain upon
 the vines until fully ripe. Care should be taken, however, not to
 allow them to become overripe before canning.
 
 In no instance should a tomato with a rotten spot be canned, even
 though the spot is cut out, for the occasional spoiled jar resulting
 from this attempted saving will cost more than the partly spoiled
 tomatoes are worth. If the housewife will can only uniformly ripe,
 sound tomatoes, saving the small, uneven but sound fruit for tomato
 _purée_, she will have a much better-looking pack and greater food
 value at the close of the season. Yellow tomatoes may be canned in the
 same manner as are the more common red varieties, except that it is
 not necessary to remove the cores.
 
First of all, grade for ripeness, size and quality; this is to insure
 a high-grade product. We could, of course, can different sizes and
 shades together, but uniform products are more pleasing to the eye and
 will sterilize much more evenly. If the products are of the same
 ripeness and quality, the entire pack will receive the proper degree
 of cooking.
 
 Wash the tomatoes. Have ready a kettle of boiling water. Put the
 tomatoes in a wire basket, or lay them on a piece of cheesecloth or a
 towel, twist the ends together to form a sack, and let this down into
 the kettle. It is a good plan to slip a rubber band round the neck of
 this sack to hold the ends in place. The ends should be long enough to
 stand up out of the water and so avoid danger of burning the fingers
 when removing the product.
 
 Have the water boiling hard. Lower the tomatoes into the boiling
 water. This is called scalding the tomatoes. We scald the tomatoes to
 loosen the skin. If the tomatoes are very ripe, one minute scalding
 will be sufficient. The average length of time for tomatoes, just
 perfect for canning, is one and a half minutes. Do not leave the
Place each jar in the canner as it is packed. The first jars in will
 not be affected by the extra cooking. Have the water just below the
 boiling point as you put in each jar. When you have the canner full
 bring the water to the boiling point as quickly as possible and begin
 to count cooking or sterilizing time from the moment it does boil.
 
 Some women make the mistake at the end of the cooking period of
 letting the jars remain in the boiling water, standing on the false
 bottom of the canner until they are cool enough to handle with no
 danger of burning the hands. This slow method of cooling not only
 tends to create "flat sour," but it is apt to result in cloudy-looking
 jars and in mushy vegetables.
 
 For this reason you should have in your equipment a lifter with which
 you can lift out the hot jars without the hands touching them. If you
 use a rack with wire handles this answers the same purpose.
 
 This "flat sour," which is not at all dangerous from the standpoint of
 health, must not be confused with the botulinus bacteria, which is an
 entirely different thing.

 "Flat sour," perfectly harmless, appears often with inexperienced
 canners. Botulinus, harmful, appears rarely. You need not be at all
 alarmed about eating either "flat sour" or botulinus, because the odor
 from spoiled goods is so distasteful--it really resembles rancid
 cheese--that you would never get a spoon of it to your mouth.
 
 If you are debating whether this jar or that jar of soup or vegetables
 is spoiled, do not _taste_ the contents of the jar. _Smell_ it.
 Tasting might poison you if you happened on the botulinus bacteria,
 which is so rare it need alarm no one; whereas smelling is perfectly
 safe.
 
 
 TIME-TABLE FOR SOUPS
 
 
 GRAY SOUP WITHOUT STOCK
 
 NUMBER OF
jelly, or can the juice for use as a beverage, for flavoring ice cream
 or some form of cooking.
 
 By employing this test, sugar can often be reduced, and thus the jelly
 texture will be fine, less rubbery and the flavor will be better.
 
 After the fruit has been selected and prepared as usual by washing,
 stemming, and so forth, it is ready to be heated in an acid-proof
 kettle. With juicy fruits use just enough water to prevent
 burning--about one cup of water to every four or five quarts of fruit.
 The juicy fruits are currants, raspberries, and so forth. With less
 juicy fruits, as apples or quinces, use enough water to cover, or
 follow the rule, half as much water as fruit. Use the cores, skins and
 seeds; these improve the flavor and color of the jelly.
 
 Berries can be mashed. Heat the fruit slowly in a covered kettle,
 stirring once in a while to obtain an even cooking. When the simmering
 point is reached, crush the fruit with a well-soaked wooden masher.
 When the fruit is tender or has a transparent appearance, it is ready
 to strain.
and then boil it. After it is boiled, remove all meat and make a mock
 turtle stew or ragout. Prepare the tripe as for table use and then
 can.
 
 After the soup stock is made and the bones are cracked for a second
 cooking, the bones need not be thrown away. You can dry them, run them
 through a bone crusher and either feed them to the chickens or use
 them for fertilizer. In this way not a particle of the dressed animal
 is wasted.
 
 Here are a few ways to utilize the cuts that are really "left-overs."
 
 
 GOULASH
 
 2 Pounds of meat scraps which can consist of beef, veal or pork.
 2 Ounces of any fat.
 2 Onions chopped fine.
 1 Stalk celery, cut in small pieces.
 2 Carrots.
2 Cups tomatoes either canned or fresh.
 1 Bay leaf.
 6 Whole cloves.
 6 Peppercorns.
 1 Blade mace or a little thyme or both.
 A little flour.
 1 Tablespoonful chopped parsley.
 Salt and paprika to taste.
 
 Cut the meat into one inch squares and roll in flour. Melt the fat in
 the frying pan, add the vegetables (onions, celery, carrots) and brown
 lightly: add the meat and brown. Stir with a spoon or fork to prevent
 burning. When browned empty into a pan.
 
 Put the bay leaf, cloves, peppercorns, mace and thyme into a
 cheesecloth bag and add to the meat, add tomatoes. Cover with soup
 stock or water and simmer 45 minutes if it is going to be canned. If
 for immediate use, 2 hours will be necessary to thoroughly cook it.
 
 Remove the spices, season with salt, paprika and the chopped parsley.
You can add Worcestershire sauce or soy sauce if desired. Use only
 small quantities as these sauces are very strong in their distinctive
 flavor. Put hot mixture into cans and sterilize.
 
 If the different spices are not at hand a good goulash can be made by
 using the meat, fat, onions, tomatoes, flour, salt and pepper and
 omitting the rest of the recipe.
 
 
 LIVER SAUSAGE
 
 Beef, veal, or hog liver. Remove the membrane and cut away the large
 blood vessels. Soak in water 1 to 2 hours to draw out blood. Boil
 until done. When cooled put through a food chopper or grate finely.
 Take half as much boiled fat pork as liver. Divide this fat into two
 portions; chop one portion into one-quarter inch cubes; pass the other
 portion through the food chopper; mix all together thoroughly; add
 salt, ground cloves, pepper, and a little grated onion to taste. A
 little thyme and marjoram may be added to suit taste. (For a liver
 weighing 1½ pounds add ¾ pounds fat pork, 3 to 4 teaspoonfuls salt, ½
from your own tin-canned products than from tin-canned food bought at
 the store. Most canned foods if in a spoiled condition readily show
 this condition by the swelling of the can or by odor or taste. Canned
 foods showing such evidences of decomposition should not be used.
 
 Certain foods which are high in protein, such as meats, peas, beans
 and fish products, may undergo decomposition without making this
 condition obvious to the senses. It is essential, therefore, that the
 greatest care be taken to subject such products to proper preparation
 and ample processing. It should be remembered that canned foods, after
 opening the containers, should be treated as perishable products and
 should be handled with the same precautions that are applied when
 fresh products are being used.
 
 
 ADVANTAGES OF CANS
 
 Many housewives ask, "Why can in tin when we have always used glass
 jars?" There are many advantages in canning in tin which we can well
 consider. There is no breakage as in glass; you can handle the tin
cans as carelessly as you choose and you will not hear a snap or crack
 indicating a lost jar. Furthermore, tin cans are easier to handle not
 only in canning but in storing.
 
 The expense each year of new tin covers or new tin cans is no more
 than the purchase of new rubbers and the replacement of broken glass
 jars. Furthermore, one big advantage of tin over glass is that tin
 cans can be cooled quickly by plunging them into cold water
 immediately upon removal from the canner, and thus the cooking is
 stopped at the proper moment. The product is consequently better in
 form and flavor than when the cooking is prolonged, as it must be in
 glass jars. Many women like the large openings of cans because they
 can make better packs than when using narrow-necked jars.
 
 If you do not care to bother with the soldering you can purchase a
 safe and simple device that will do the work for you. This device is
 called a tin-can sealer. With a sealer no soldering is necessary.
 Even an inexperienced person, by following directions carefully, can
 seal a can as well as an experienced one. The sealed cans look exactly
 like those purchased at the store. Two or three cans a minute can be

 Flat-sour often causes annoyance to beginners in canning some
 vegetables, such as corn, peas, beans and asparagus. These canned
 foods may show no signs of spoilage and yet when the can is opened the
 product may have a sour taste and a disagreeable odor. This
 "flat-sour" is not harmful and must not be confused with "botulinus,"
 which is harmful. However, the taste and odor are so disagreeable you
 will have no desire to eat "flat-sour" canned goods.
 
 This trouble can be avoided if you will use fresh products, that is,
 those which have not been allowed to wilt or stand around the shops
 for several days, and will blanch, cold-dip, and pack one jar of
 product at a time, and place each jar in the canner as it is packed.
 The first jars in will not be affected by the extra cooking. When the
 steam-pressure canner is used the jars or cans may be placed in the
 retort and the cover placed into position but not clamped down until
 the retort is filled.
 
 
 TROUBLES WITH CORN
minutes as the canning is." And another woman said: "What I do not
 like about drying is having the stuff standing round the house
 somewhere for so many hours. I like to get things in the jars and out
 of sight."
 
 These two objections seem to be expressed more than any other. And in
 addition there is a third objection to drying: "I want my prepared
 food ready to use on a minute  '  s notice. I can quickly open a can of my
 fruit and vegetables and there it is ready. With my dried things I
 have to allow time for soaking and cooking." This we will have to
 admit is true. But what weight have these three arguments against the
 many advantages of drying?
 
 When we study the history of food preservation we find that drying was
 practiced before canning, pickling or preserving. I know my
 grandmother successfully dried quantities of things.
 
 Vegetable and fruit drying have been little practiced for a
 generation or more, though there have been some thrifty housekeepers
 who have clung to their dried corn, peas, beans and apples. A friend
of mine says: "Why, dried corn has a much better, sweeter taste than
 your canned stuff. I would rather have one little dish of my delicious
 dried corn than two big dishes of your canned corn."
 
 Drying, I think we will all admit, does not and cannot take the place
 of canning fruits and vegetables in glass or tin. Drying and canning
 are twin sisters, and always go hand in hand.
 
 The ideal arrangement for all homes, whether on the farm, in the
 village, in the town or in the city, is to have an ample supply of
 canned food for emergencies and quick service, and an equally ample
 supply of dried foods when meals are planned beforehand and there is
 time enough for the soaking and cooking of the dried foods.
 
 
 THE ADVANTAGES OF DRYING
 
 When we come right down to facts, drying has many advantages over
 canning.
 
The process is very simple, as you will see. The cost is slight. In
 almost every home the necessary equipment, in its simplest form, is
 already at hand. There is no expense for glass jars or tin cans, and
 with ordinary care there is no loss of products, as there may be in
 handling glass jars or from spoilage. The actual work requires less
 time and less skill than canning and the dried products when properly
 prepared are just as good as the canned ones--some say better.
 
 One special thing in favor of drying is the little storage space
 needed. You can often reduce 100 pounds of fresh product to ten
 pounds by drying, without any loss of food value and with little loss
 of flavor.
 
 Dried products can be moved more conveniently than glass jars or tin
 cans, for they are usually reduced to from one-third to one-fifth of
 the original bulk.
 
 Another valuable thing about drying is that the little odds and ends
 one would scarcely bother to can may be dried in the oven as you go
 about your housework.

 I have often been asked the difference between the meaning of the
 terms "evaporated," "dried," "desiccated" and "dehydrated." These
 terms are used more or less interchangeably when applied to foods from
 which the moisture has been removed. In a general way, however,
 "evaporated" products are those from which the moisture has been
 removed through the agency of artificial heat; dried fruit is that
 which has been exposed to the heat of the sun, though not infrequently
 the term is applied to products handled in the evaporator. The other
 terms are commonly applied to products that have been evaporated by
 one of the various patented processes in which equipment of some
 special design has been used.
 
 To avoid any confusion we will use the general term "dried" for all
 products that have enough of the water removed to prevent bacterial
 action, but which still retain the maximum food value, color and
 flavor of the original product. And that is what we want to accomplish
 when we attempt to dry.
 
 How are we to remove the water and still retain food value, color and
flavor? There are three principal methods by which we can do this.
 First, by artificial heat. Drying by artificial heat is done in the
 oven or on top of a cookstove or range, in trays suspended on the
 stove or in a specially constructed dryer built at home or purchased.
 
 Second, by the sun. Sun drying is done either out of doors in the sun,
 under glass in sun parlors, or the products are hung in the attic
 where the sun has free access.
 
 Third, satisfactory drying may be done by an air blast from an
 electric fan.
 
 Of course any one of these may be used alone or two different methods
 may be combined. You can start a product on the stove and finish it in
 the sun, or _vice versa._
 
 The simplest and yet the most effective drying may be done on plates
 or dishes placed in the oven. It may be done on the back of the
 kitchen stove with these same utensils while the oven is being used
 for baking. In this way left-overs and other bits of food may be dried

 Green Tomatoes. Green tomatoes should be packed whole and prepared
 as cucumbers. The dill and spice may be added if desired.
 
 Beets. Beets must be scrubbed thoroughly and packed whole. If peeled
 or sliced before being fermented the beets lose considerable color and
 flavor.
 
 Beet Tops and Turnip Tops. These should be washed thoroughly and
 packed into the container without being cut up.
 
 Peas. Green peas should be shelled and packed in the same way as
 string beans. It is advisable to use fairly small containers for peas,
 so that the quantity opened up will be used before it has a chance to
 spoil.
 
 Corn. Husk and clean the silk from the corn; wash and place the ears
 on end in the jar, packing the jar nearly full. Pour the brine over
 the ears; add cover and weights. Fermented corn has a sour taste,
 which may not be relished if the corn is eaten alone. For this reason
it will be preferable in most cases to preserve corn by canning,
 drying or by salting without fermentation. Fermented corn, however,
 may be used in the preparation of some dishes, such as chowders,
 omelets, and so forth, where its flavor will be masked to some extent
 by the other ingredients. To some people this peculiar acid taste of
 fermented corn is not at all objectionable.
 
 Salting Without Fermentation. In this method the vegetables are
 packed with enough salt to prevent fermentation or the growth of
 yeasts or molds. The vegetables preserved most satisfactorily by this
 method are dandelions, beet tops, turnip tops, spinach, kale, chard,
 cabbage, cauliflower, string beans, green peas and corn. The following
 directions should be followed:
 
 The vegetables should be washed, drained and weighed. The amount of
 salt needed will be a quarter of the weight of the vegetables. Kegs or
 crocks make satisfactory containers. Put a layer of vegetables about
 an inch thick on the bottom of the container. Cover this with salt.
 Continue making alternate layers of vegetables and salt until the
 container is almost filled. The salt should be evenly distributed so
