just rise up and conquer me." 
  
 Every housewife knows that, no matter how carefully she plans there is 
 sure to be a small quantity of leftover meat, gravy or vegetables. And 
 just what to do with them is almost a daily problem. Two essentials 
 are necessary to successfully utilize leftovers: First, good 
 seasoning; second, attractive appearance. 
  
 The French excel in serving leftovers because they so thoroughly 
 understand the art of flavoring and seasoning. The French housewife 
 knows very well that she may only have a _pot au feu_ to serve to the 
 family, but the family knows that the delicate, attractive manner in 
 which the food is put on the table would appeal to the epicure, though 
 the table is but a plain ash top, scoured to the whiteness of the 
 snows. 
  
  
 HOW TO PREPARE A FAGGOT OF SOUP HERBS 
  
 Place in separate piles:
GARLIC 
  
 Few American persons know of the garlic but as a rank, pungent flavor. 
 To the foreigner garlic is as sweet tasting as the onion and its 
 flavor delightful in food. Just that dash that it needs to give it 
 zest. Separate a clump of garlic into cloves and then peel and place 
 in a fruit jar. Now bring one pint of white wine vinegar to the 
 scalding point and then pour it over the garlic. Place on the cover 
 and set in a warm place for two days. Use this vinegar for seasoning 
 gravies and use the garlic, cut into tiny bits the size of a pinhead, 
 for flavoring. 
  
 For serving, use individual ramekin casseroles, baking shells, and 
 thus make for efficient and quick handling of the food, in which the 
 food itself is presented in a most attractive way. A good blend 
 of seasoning is most important, so I am going to give you a French 
 housewife  '  s secret. Mince four medium-sized onions very fine, then 
 place in a bowl and add 
  
 Six tablespoons of salt,
Four tablespoons of flour and one cup of milk make a thick sauce. 
  
 Five level tablespoons of flour and one cup of milk make a sauce for 
 cutlets, croquettes, etc. 
  
 Use a saucepan that is scoured bright, add the flour to the cold milk 
 and then stir to dissolve, using fork or wire whip to facilitate the 
 process. Never use a spoon for this purpose, as it is impossible to 
 thoroughly dissolve the lumps. Place on the fire and bring to a boil, 
 stirring constantly. Cook for five minutes after the boiling point is 
 reached and then remove from the fire and add seasoning. It is then 
 ready to use. If you desire a butter flavor, add one tablespoonful of 
 butter with the seasoning and stir until melted. 
  
 Part milk and water, stock, chicken broth, oyster or clam juice may be 
 used in place of all milk with very good results. When making soups 
 or sauces for meat and vegetable dishes the liquid from the canned 
 vegetables, or the water in which the fresh vegetables were cooked, 
 may be combined with an equal portion of milk. 
 
harden. Now, when using this fat, use one-third less than the amount 
 called for in the recipe. To make pastry, allow four tablespoonfuls 
 of this chicken fat to each cup of flour. Chicken fat may be used to 
 replace butter for seasoning vegetables and mashed potatoes. This is 
 a pure fat free from moisture and seasoning and will go farther than 
 butter. 
  
 Generally, in speaking of the term "drippings," it meant to include 
 fats that cook out from the roast beef, pot roast, soups and corned 
 beef. This fat is clarified and then used for sautéing. It cannot be 
 used with good results for making pastry and cakes. 
  
 To clarify fat: Put the fat in a saucepan and add one cupful of cold 
 water to every pound of fat. Add 
  
 One-fourth teaspoon of bicarbonate of soda, 
 One-half teaspoon of salt 
  
 Bring to a boil and then simmer slowly for ten minutes. Pour through 
 a strainer lined with cheesecloth and allow to harden, then cut into
pieces. Reheat and pour into jars. Bacon, sausage and ham fats may be 
 blended with beef drippings for frying purposes. 
  
 Mutton or lamb fat must be clarified and then blended with ham and 
 bacon or sausage fat. Fat from bacon, ham and sausages may be used for 
 flavoring vegetables in place of butter, for cooking omelets, potato 
 cakes, mush and scrapple. It is a splendid seasoning to use for 
 macaroni, baked beans with tomato sauce, dried beans and peas in soups 
 and when cooking dried lima beans. There is really no need to allow a 
 spoonful of these fats to be wasted. Fats that are not available for 
 table use should be collected and made into soap. 
  
 Do not be falsely economical in trying to do deep frying with these 
 fats. They not only will not hold the temperature for successful 
 frying without scorching, but they frequently soak into the food and 
 make it unfit to eat. 
  
 The late war has brought many good vegetable oils upon the market that 
 are ideal for cooking purposes and are preferable to the animal 
 fats for all cooking. They not only hold a high temperature without
fruits, but fresh fruit as well. 
  
 When cooked tender, drain the liquid from the fruit and measure. Allow 
 one-half cup of sugar to every three cups of juice. Place this juice 
 and the sugar in a separate saucepan and boil until thick; then pour 
 over the fruit. 
  
 Dried fruits prepared this way will be found to be delicious. Apricots 
 will require very little cooking, so drain them free from the liquid 
 in which they are soaked and add the sugar. Boil the syrup until thick 
 and then pour over the apricots and cook gently for ten minutes. 
  
 Remove the skins from peaches, after soaking them, and before cooking 
 add a little piece of thin orange peel for flavor. 
  
 To prepare dried pears soak them for twelve hours and then place in a 
 casserole dish and add to one-half pound of fruit 
  
 One cup of brown sugar. 
 Juice of one lemon,
accurate measurements for seasoning and flavoring. 
  
 A spatula will repay its cost many times over the first month it is 
 used. It is possible with this knife to remove every particle of food 
 from a mixing bowl. 
  
 How can you keep a house without a pair of reliable scales? Do you 
 know how much the chicken weighed that you bought on Saturday, and do 
 you know how much waste there was; or the weight of the bone in 
 the meat that you purchased on Wednesday? Do you ever weigh your 
 purchases? Think this over and then buy a good pair of scales and keep 
 them in a convenient place. 
  
 List of equivalent measures:-- 
 1  salt spoon   1/4 teaspoon 
 3  teaspoons    1 tablespoon 
 3  tablespoons  1 cooking spoon 
 4  tablespoons  1/4 cup 
 8  tablespoons  1/2 cup 
 12 tablespoons  3/4 cup
For this reason it is one of the most popular cuts. 
  
 Seventh, porterhouse. This portion of the loin contains the choicest 
 steaks, excellent and nutritious and easily cooked. The fillet or 
 tenderloin forms a part of the loin and averages about 13 per cent. 
 waste. 
  
 Eighth, rump. This cut is very nutritious, but requires careful 
 cooking to render it tender; it contains slightly more waste than the 
 round. Good steaks are obtained from the rump; it is also used for pot 
 roast braising and coming. 
  
 Ninth, pin bone, the middle portion of the loin. It is of excellent 
 quality, tender and of good flavor and quite as popular as the loin. 
 It is the face cut of the rump. 
  
 Tenth, round. An inexpensive cut, containing only 7 per cent, waste. 
 It is nutritious as tenderloin, but not as tender. The first essential 
 in cooking is to sear the outside in order to retain the juices and 
 then cook slowly until tender.
then it should be cooked just below the boiling point until tender, 
 allowing one-half hour for the meat to heat and start cooking and then 
 twenty-five minutes to the pound. Add salt just before removing from 
 the fire. 
  
 Keep this fact in mind, that salt will, if added when the meat is just 
 starting to cook, extract the juice. 
  
 For pot roast and braises, etc., it is necessary to quickly sear over 
 the surface of the meat for the same reason that the meat was plunged 
 into boiling water and then cook slowly, allowing the same proportion 
 of time as for boiling or stewing. 
  
 The real object in cooking meat is to retain the juices and make it 
 sufficiently to eat and increase its flavor. 
  
  
 BEEF STEW 
  
 Cut two and one-half pounds of stewing beef in two-inch pieces and
cornstarch pudding, 188 
 filling for cakes made from cocoa, 71 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
  
 [Illustration: "_I never grate chocolate anymore!_"] 
  
 I give my icings, fillings, pies and puddings "_that chocolaty 
 taste_" of Runkel  '  s without bothering to grate chocolate. 
 Runkel  '  s All-Purpose Cocoa is the finest quality chocolate, 
 _already a powder, all ready to use_! 
  
 You need no special recipes. Just use three level 
 tablespoonfuls (3/4 oz.) of Runkel  '  s All-Purpose Cocoa instead 
 of each "square" (1 oz.) of cooking chocolate. It not only 
 improves the flavor, but saves 1/4 the cost. 
  
 Interesting Dessert Book, "_The New Cocoa Cookery_", will be 
 sent you gratis upon request. 
 
