 
 By 
  
 Janet McKenzie Hill 
  
 Editor of "The Boston Cooking-School Magazine" 
 Author of "Practical Cooking and Serving" 
  
 NEW EDITION 
 WITH ADDITIONAL RECIPES 
  
 "_Things which in hungry mortals  '   eyes find favor._" 
 BYRON 
  
 Boston 
 Little, Brown, and Company 
 1909 
  
  
 
 
  
 _Copyright, 1899, 1903_ 
 BY JANET M. HILL. 
  
 Printers 
 S. J. PARKHILL & CO., BOSTON, U. S. A. 
  
  
  
  
 TO 
  
 MRS. WILLIAM B. SEWALL, 
  
 President of the Boston Cooking-School Corporation, 
  
 IN GRATEFUL RECOGNITION OF THE OPPORTUNITY 
  
 PRESENTED BY HER FOR CONGENIAL WORK IN A
cookery. Few women know how to cook an egg or boil a potato properly, 
 and the making of the perfect loaf of bread has long been assigned a 
 place among the "lost arts." 
  
 By many women cooking is considered, at best, a homely art,--a necessary 
 kind of drudgery; and the composition, if not the consumption, of salads 
 and chafing-dish productions has been restricted, hitherto, chiefly to 
 that half of the race "who cook to please themselves." But, since women 
 have become anxious to compete with men in any and every walk of life, 
 they, too, are desirous of becoming adepts in tossing up an appetizing 
 salad or in stirring a creamy rarebit. And yet neither a pleasing salad, 
 especially if it is to be composed of cooked materials, nor a tempting 
 rarebit can be evolved, save by happy accident, without an accurate 
 knowledge of the fundamental principles that underlie all cookery. 
  
 In a book of this nature and scope, the philosophy of heat at different 
 temperatures, as it is applied in cooking, and the more scientific 
 aspects of culinary processes, could not be dwelt upon; but, while we 
 have not overlooked the ABC of the art, our special aim has been to 
 present our topics in such a simple and pleasing form that she who
attempts the composition of the dishes described herein will not be 
 satisfied until she has gained a deeper insight into the conditions 
 necessary for success in the pursuit of these as well as other 
 fascinating branches of the culinary art. 
  
 Care has been exercised to meet the actual needs of those who wish to 
 cultivate a taste for light, wholesome dishes, or to cater to the 
 vagaries of the most capricious appetites. 
  
 There is nothing new under the sun, so no claim is made to absolute 
 originality in contents. In this and all similar works, the matter of 
 necessity must consist, in the main, of old material in a new dress. 
  
 Though the introduction to Part III. was originally written for this 
 book, the substance of it was published in the December-January 
 (1898-99) issue of the _Boston Cooking-School Magazine_. From time to 
 time, also, a few of the recipes, with minor changes, have appeared in 
 that journal. 
  
 Illustrations by means of half-tones produced from photographs of actual
dishes were first brought out, we think, by The Century Company; in this 
 line, however, both in the number and in the variety of the dishes 
 prepared, the author may justly claim to have done more than any other 
 has yet essayed. The illustrations on these pages were prepared 
 expressly for this work, and the dishes and the photographs of the same 
 were executed under our own hand and eye. That results pleasing to the 
 eye and acceptable to the taste await those who try the confections 
 described in this book is the sincere wish of the author. 
  
 JANET M. HILL 
  
  
  
  
 Contents 
  
 Part I. 
  
 SALADS 
 
Club Sandwich                                   "    "    128 
 Boston Brown Bread                              "    "    138 
 Bread cut for Sandwiches                        "    "    138 
 Bowl of Fruit-Punch ready for serving           "    "    143 
 Copper Chafing-Dish with Earthen Casserole      "    "    149 
 Chafing-Dish, Filler, etc.                      "    "    153 
 Course at Formal Dinner served in Individual 
 Chafing-Dishes                                  "    "    157 
 Butter Balls with Utensils for Chafing-Dish     "    "    178 
 Moulded Halibut with Creamed Peas               "    "    178 
 Yorkshire Rabbit                                "    "    186 
 Curried Eggs                                    "    "    186 
 Mushroom Cromeskies, ready for cooking          "    "    198 
 Prune Toast                                     "    "    198 
  
  
  
  
 PART I. 
 
SALADS. 
  
 "_Though my stomach was sharp, I could scarce help regretting 
 To spoil such a delicate picture by eating._" 
  
  
  
  
 INTRODUCTION. 
  
 At their savory dinner set 
 Herbs and other country messes, 
 Which the neat-handed Phyllis dresses. 
 --_Milton._ 
  
  
 Our taste for salads--and in their simplest form who is not fond of 
 salads?--is an inheritance from classic times and Eastern lands. In the 
 hot climates of the Orient, cucumbers and melons were classed among 
 earth  '  s choicest productions; and a resort ever grateful in the heat of
the day was "a lodge in a garden of cucumbers." 
  
 At the Passover the Hebrews ate lettuce, camomile, dandelion and 
 mint,--the "bitter herbs" of the Paschal feast,--combined with oil and 
 vinegar. Of the Greeks, the rich were fond of the lettuces of Smyrna, 
 which appeared on their tables at the close of the repast. In this 
 respect the Romans, at first, imitated the Greeks, but later came to 
 serve lettuce with eggs as a first course and to excite the appetite. 
 The ancient physicians valued lettuce for its narcotic virtue, and, on 
 account of this property, Galen, the celebrated Greek physician, called 
 it "the philosopher  '  s or wise man  '  s herb." 
  
 The older historians make frequent mention of salad plants and salads. 
 In the biblical narrative Moses wrote: "And the children of Israel wept 
 again and said, We remember the fish which we did eat in Egypt freely; 
 the cucumbers, and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions, and the 
 garlick." 
  
 In his second Eclogue, Virgil represents a rustic maid, Thestylis, 
 preparing for the reapers a salad called _moretum_. He wrote, also, a
poem bearing this title, in which he describes the composition and 
 preparation of the dish. 
  
 A modern authority says, "Salads refresh without exciting and make 
 people younger." Whether this be strictly true or not may be an open 
 question, but certainly in the assertion a grain of truth is visible; 
 for it is a well-known fact that "salad plants are better tonics and 
 blood purifiers than druggists  '   compounds." There is, also, an old 
 proverb: "Eat onions in May, and all the year after physicians may 
 play." What is health but youth? 
  
 Vegetables, fish and meats, "left over,"--all may be transformed, by 
 artistic treatment, into salads delectable to the eye and taste. 
 Potatoes are subject to endless combinations. First of all in this 
 connection, before dressing the potatoes allow them to stand in 
 bouillon, meat broth, or even in the liquor in which corned beef has 
 been cooked; then drain carefully before adding the oil and other 
 seasonings. 
  
 Of uncooked vegetables, cabbage lettuce--called long ago by the Greek
 
 Aromatic vinegars, a few drops of which, used occasionally, lend 
 piquancy and variety to an every-day salad, can be purchased at 
 high-class provision stores; but the true salad-maker is an artist, and 
 prefers to compound her own colors (_i.e._, vinegars); therefore we have 
 given several recipes for the same, which may be easily modified to suit 
 individual tastes. 
  
 Indeed, the dressing of a salad, though in the early days of the century 
 considered a special art,--an art that rendered it possible for at least 
 one noted Royalist refugee to amass a considerable fortune,--is 
 entirely a matter of individual taste, or, more properly speaking, of 
 cultivation. On this account, particularly for a French dressing, no set 
 rules can be given. By experience and judgment one must decide upon the 
 proportions of the different ingredients, or, more specifically, upon 
 the proportions of the oil and acid to be used. Often four spoonfuls of 
 oil are used to one of vinegar. Four spoonfuls of oil to two, three or 
 four of vinegar may be the proportion preferred by others, and the 
 quantity may vary for different salads. 
 
Though in many of the recipes explicit quantities of oil, vinegar and 
 condiments are given, it is with the understanding that these quantities 
 are indicated simply as an approximate rule; sometimes less and 
 sometimes more will be required, according to the tendency of the 
 article dressed to absorb oil and acid, or the taste of the salad 
 dresser. 
  
  
 =Use of Dressings.= 
  
 The dressings in most common use are the French and the mayonnaise. A 
 French dressing is used for green vegetables, for fruit and nuts, and to 
 marinate cooked vegetables, or the meat or fish for a meat or fish 
 salad. Mayonnaise dressing is used for meat, fish, some varieties of 
 fruit, as banana, apple and pineapple, and for some vegetables, as 
 cauliflower, asparagus and tomatoes. Any article to be served with 
 mayonnaise, after standing an hour or more in a marinade,--_i.e._, 
 French dressing,--should be carefully drained, as, by the pickling 
 process, liquid will drain out into the bottom of the vessel and, mixing 
 with the mayonnaise, will liquefy the same.
 
  
 =Arrangement of Salads.= 
  
 In the arrangement of salads there may be great display of taste and 
 individuality. By a judicious selection from materials that may be kept 
 constantly in store, and with one or two window boxes, in which herbs 
 are growing, any one, with a modicum of inventive skill, can so change 
 and modify the appearance and flavor of her salads that she may seem 
 always to present a new one. 
  
  
 =Composition of Mayonnaise.= 
  
 Mayonnaise dressing is composed largely of olive oil. A small amount of 
 yolk of egg is used as a foundation. The oil, with the addition of 
 condiments, is slightly acidulated with vinegar and lemon juice, one or 
 both, and the whole is made very light and thick by beating. Mayonnaise 
 forms a very handsome dressing, and it is much enjoyed by those who are 
 fond of oil.
 
  
 =Value of Oil.= 
  
 Pure olive oil is almost entirely without flavor, and a taste for it can 
 be readily acquired; and, when we consider that it contains all the 
 really desirable qualities of the once-famous cod-liver oil, except the 
 phosphates, and that these may be supplied in the other materials of the 
 salad, it would seem wise to cultivate a taste for so wholesome an 
 article. By the addition of cream, in the proportion of a cup of whipped 
 cream to a pint of dressing, those to whom oil has not become agreeable 
 can so modify its "tone" that they too will enjoy the mayonnaise 
 dressing. 
  
  
 =Boiled and Cream Dressings.= 
  
 For the French and mayonnaise dressings--particularly for the latter--we 
 sometimes substitute a _boiled_ and sometimes a _cream_ dressing. In the 
 first, butter, or cream, is substituted for oil, and the materials are
combined by cooking. In the latter, as the name implies, cream is the 
 basis, and this may be either sweet or sour. 
  
  
 =Important Points in Salad-Making.= 
  
 (1) The green vegetables should be served fresh and crisp. 
  
 (2) Meat and fish should be well marinated and cold. 
  
 (3) The ingredients composing the salad should not be combined until the 
 last moment before serving. 
  
  
 =When to Serve Salads with French or Mayonnaise Dressing.= 
  
 As a rule, subject, however, to exceptions, light vegetable salads, 
 dressed with French dressing, are served at dinner; while heavy meat or 
 fish Salads are reserved for luncheon, or supper, and are served with 
 mayonnaise or cream dressing.
and sprinkle over them a fine-chopped pimento. Garnish with lettuce 
 leaves. Fine-chopped chives may be used in the place of the onion juice; 
 they are particularly appropriate in any bean salad. If the beans are 
 large, cut in halves lengthwise and the halves crosswise. 
  
 Tomato jelly may be served in a ring mould with turkey, oyster, plain 
 chicken, French chicken, and other salads. The oysters should be scalded 
 and drained, then marinated with French dressing. Chicken and turkey 
 should also be marinated before mixing with celery and the mayonnaise or 
 boiled dressing. 
  
  
 =Tomato-and-Artichoke Salad.= 
  
 (MRS. E. M. LUCAS, IN BOSTON COOKING-SCHOOL MAGAZINE.) 
  
 Choose medium-sized tomatoes, firm and smooth skinned. Peel them, cut a 
 slice from the stem end and remove the seeds with a small spoon. 
 Sprinkle the interior of these cups with salt and set on ice. When ready 
 to serve, wipe them dry and fill with artichokes cut into dice and mixed
with mayonnaise. Serve on lettuce leaves. Use tarragon vinegar in 
 preparing the dressing. Cook the artichoke hearts until just tender,--no 
 longer,--in salted boiling water, then drain and cool. 
  
  
 =Artichoke Salad.= 
  
 (_For game._) 
  
 (MRS. E. M. LUCAS, IN BOSTON COOKING-SCHOOL MAGAZINE.) 
  
 Peel three oranges, remove the pith and white skin and slice lengthwise; 
 use an equal amount of tender blanched celery stalks cut into inch 
 lengths. Mix together lightly with two tablespoonfuls of olive oil, one 
 tablespoonful of lemon juice, half a teaspoonful of salt and a quarter a 
 teaspoonful of paprica. Heap together lightly on a serving-dish and 
 surround with cooked hearts of artichokes cut into quarters; wreathe 
 with blanched celery leaves. 
  
 
=Artichoke Salad.= 
  
 (_Used as a border for shrimp, lobster, chicken and other salads._) 
  
 (MRS. E. M. LUCAS, IN BOSTON COOKING-SCHOOL MAGAZINE.) 
  
 Cut boiled artichokes into quarter-inch slices and stamp out with a 
 French vegetable cutter. To half a pint add one tablespoonful of olive 
 oil, half a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar and one-fourth a 
 teaspoonful of salt; toss lightly together and let stand one hour; 
 drain, and arrange as a border with an outer layer of tiny blanched 
 lettuce leaves. 
  
 2. Scoop out the centres of the artichokes and fill with mayonnaise, or 
 with ravigote, tartare or tyrolienne sauce. Serve on lettuce leaves as a 
 border to a meat or fish salad. 
  
 3. Fill the centres with walnut meats, sliced, or tender celery stalks, 
 cut fine and mixed with mayonnaise. 
 
 
  
  
 FISH SALADS. 
  
 "_Some choice sous  '  d fish brought couchant in a dish, 
 Among some fennel._" 
  
 "_Of what complexion? 
 Of the sea water green, sir._" 
  
  
  
  
 FISH SALADS. 
  
  
 Ever, and justly, fish have taken high rank in the list of salad 
 ingredients. No wonder, when we consider that nothing excels in delicacy 
 of flavor many a variety of fish; and, while fish are not necessarily
expensive in any locality, in many sections of the country their cost is 
 merely nominal. Then, too, salad-making appeals largely to one  '  s 
 artistic nature, and the products of sea and fresh water are constantly 
 furnishing opportunities for studies in many and varied shades of color. 
 The lobster  '  s vivid red, the brilliant tints of the salmon and red 
 snapper, the delicate pink of shrimps, the dull white of scallops and 
 halibut, and the bluish gray of mackerel and bluefish, each, in its 
 season, may be made to contrast most effectively with fresh green herbs 
 and yellow dressings. 
  
 Oysters, scallops and little-neck clams are frequently served in salads 
 without cooking. These should be carefully washed, then drained and set 
 aside in a marinade for an hour. When cooked, they should be heated to 
 the boiling-point in their own liquor, then drained and cut in halves. 
 The adductor muscle of the oyster--the white, button-shaped part that 
 connects the animal with its shell--is often discarded. Other fish than 
 shellfish, when used in salads, are boiled, broiled or baked; they 
 present the best appearance, however, when boiled. Thudichum recommends 
 sea water, whenever it is available, for boiling fish; lacking this, hot 
 water, salted (an ounce of salt to a quart of water), and acidulated
pleasantly with lemon juice or vinegar, is the proper medium of cooking. 
 The addition of a slice or two of onion and carrot, a sprig of parsley, 
 a stalk of celery, with aromatic herbs or spices, provided they be not 
 used so freely as to overpower the delicate savor of the fish, is 
 thought to improve the dish. 
  
 The quantity of water should be adjusted to the size of the fish; in no 
 case should it be larger than will suffice to produce the desired 
 result. At the moment the fish is immersed in the water the temperature 
 should be at the boiling-point, and thereafter the vessel should be 
 permitted to simmer during the process of cooking. 
  
 The fish may be cooked whole, or cut into small pieces, similar in shape 
 and size. In the latter case a wire basket is of service, as, by this 
 means, the fish may be easily removed from the water and drained. If the 
 fish is to be served whole, remove the skin and fins, and, when 
 thoroughly cold, mask with jelly mayonnaise or with a fancy butter. 
 After chilling again, the mask may be decorated with capers, olives, 
 eggs, etc. If the fish is to be used in flakes, the flakes will separate 
 more easily while the fish is still hot. In marinating fish, let the
 
  
  
 INTRODUCTION. 
  
 =Chafing-dishes Past and Present.= 
  
 Well, he was an ingenious man that first found out 
 eating and drinking.--_Swift._ 
  
  
 How fire was discovered, when it was first applied to the needs of human 
 beings, the origin and early use of cooking and heating utensils,--all 
 are concealed from us in the mists that surround the life of prehistoric 
 man. But at the dawn of history, even before the beginning of our era, 
 crude appliances for cooking were in use; and, without doubt, one of the 
 earliest of these was an utensil corresponding in some particulars, at 
 least, to the chafing-dish of to-day. 
  
 The chafing-dish is a portable utensil used upon the table, either for
cooking food or for keeping food hot after it has been cooked by other 
 means. In ancient times, the fuel of the chafing-dish was either live 
 coals or olive oil; to-day we use either electricity, gas, alcohol or 
 colonial spirits. 
  
 The first chafing-dishes of which historic mention is made consisted of 
 a pan heated over a pot of burning oil, the pan resting upon a frame 
 which held the pot of oil. It was with such an utensil, perhaps, that 
 the Israelitish women cooked the locusts of Egypt and Palestine, for 
 these were eaten as a common food by the people of the biblical lands 
 and age. 
  
 Mommsen, in his history of Rome, while speaking of the extravagance of 
 the times, as shown in the table furnishings, probably refers to the 
 chafing-dish when he says: "A well-wrought bronze cooking-machine came 
 to cost more than an estate." The idea that this might be the utensil 
 referred to is strengthened by the fact that many chafing-dishes have 
 been found in the ruins of Pompeii. These were made of bronze, and 
 highly ornamented. Evidently, olive oil was the fuel used in these 
 dishes.
 
 Coming down to more modern times, Madame de Staël had a dish of very 
 unique pattern, and, when driven by the command of Napoleon from her 
 beloved Paris, she carried her chafing-dish with her into exile as one 
 of her most cherished household gods. At the present day among the 
 favored few, who have full purses, are found sets of little silver 
 chafing-dishes about four inches square. These tiny dishes rest upon a 
 doylie-covered plate, and a bird or rarebit may be served in them as a 
 course at dinner, one to each guest. The cooking is not done in these 
 dishes, and they are not furnished with lamps; in them the food, while 
 it is being eaten, is simply kept hot by means of a tiny pan filled with 
 hot water. 
  
 [Illustration: Chafing-Dish, Filler, Etc. 
  
 "With all Appliances and Means to boot."] 
  
 In reality, the modern chafing-dish is a species of _bain marie_, or 
 double boiler, with a lamp so arranged that cooking can be done 
 without other appliances. It consists of four parts. The _first_ is the
blazer, or the pan in which the cooking is done; this is provided with a 
 long handle. The _second_ is the hot-water pan, which corresponds to the 
 lower part of the double boiler; this should be provided with handles, 
 and is a very inconvenient dish without them. The _third_ is the frame 
 upon which the hot-water pan rests, and in which the spirit-lamp is set. 
 The _last_, but by no means least, part is the lamp; this is provided 
 with a cotton or an asbestos wick. When the lamp has a cotton wick, the 
 flame is regulated by turning the wick up or down, as in an ordinary 
 lamp. At present this style of lamp is found only in the more expensive 
 grades of dishes,--silver-plated, and costing from $15 upwards. When 
 asbestos is used as the wick, the lamp is filled with this porous stone, 
 which is to be saturated with alcohol immediately before using, and the 
 top is covered with a wire netting. The flame is regulated by means of 
 metal slides, which open and shut over the netting, thus cutting off or 
 letting on the flame, as it is desired. 
  
  
 =Chafing-dish Appointments.= 
  
 With all appliances and means to boot.
--HENRY IV., iii. I. 
  
 The chafing-dish should always rest upon a tray, as a very slight 
 draught of air, or the expansion of the alcohol when heated, will 
 sometimes cause the flame to flare out and downward, and thus an 
 unprotected tablecloth might be set on fire. 
  
 Often a cutlet dish is considered a necessary part of a chafing-dish 
 outfit; but as one of the chief merits of the chafing-dish consists in 
 the possibility of serving a repast the instant it is cooked, there 
 would seem to be a want of propriety in removing the cooked article to a 
 platter and garnishing the dish before serving. 
  
 A polished wooden spoon, with long handle and small bowl, is a most 
 convenient utensil to use while cooking the dainty; but the regulation 
 chafing-dish spoon is needed when serving the same. Such a spoon has a 
 broad bowl of silver or aluminum, with rounded end, and a long ebony 
 handle. 
  
 The filler is a most convenient article for use, when the lamp needs
replenishing with alcohol, but in its absence the alcohol may be turned 
 into a small pitcher and from that into the lamp. A lamp of the average 
 size holds about five tablespoonfuls of alcohol, and this quantity will 
 supply heat for at least half an hour. 
  
 Glass, granite or tin measuring-cups, upon which thirds or quarters are 
 indicated, also tea- and tablespoons, are essential for accurate 
 measurements. 
  
 Several items are essential to the successful serving of a meal from the 
 chafing-dish. To be a pronounced success, the work must be done 
 noiselessly and gracefully. The preparation of all articles is the same 
 for the chafing-dish as for the common stove; but where the mixing is 
 done at the table, as for a rarebit, the recipe takes on an additional 
 flavor, according to the deftness with which it is done. 
  
 Let, then, everything be ready and at hand, before the guests or family 
 assemble at the table. Have the lamp filled and covered, so that it may 
 remain filled. Have all seasonings measured out in a cup. In case the 
 yolks of eggs are to be used, they will not injure, having been beaten
beforehand, if they be kept covered. When oysters are to be served, have 
 them washed, freed from bits of shell, drained, and left in a pitcher 
 from which they can be readily poured. The quantity of butter used in 
 the recipes is indicated by tablespoonfuls, and may be measured out 
 beforehand and rolled into dainty balls with butter-hands, a spoonful in 
 each ball. 
  
 Bear in mind that the hot-water pan is to be used in all cases where the 
 double boiler would be used, if the cooking were to be done upon the 
 range. For instance, where the recipe calls for milk or cream, except in 
 the making of a sauce, use the bath from the beginning. Also, be careful 
 always to place the blazer in the bath before eggs are added to any 
 mixture. Indeed, the hot-water pan is the one feature of the 
 chafing-dish which it is most important to notice; for on the proper use 
 of the hot-water pan the value of the chafing-dish as an exponent of 
 scientific cookery entirely depends. She who well understands the 
 principles upon which the use of this rests has gained no small insight 
 into the secret of all cookery, be it scientific, economic or hygienic; 
 for a knowledge of the effect of heat at different temperatures, applied 
 to food, is the very foundation-stone upon which all cookery rests.
 
 Although the chafing-dish is especially adapted to the needs of the 
 bachelor, man or maid, its use should not be relegated entirely to the 
 homeless or the Bohemian. In the sick-room, at the luncheon-table, on 
 Sunday night, it is most serviceable and wellnigh indispensable; it 
 always suggests hearty welcome and good cheer. 
  
 While it is out of place, at any ceremonial meal, as a means of cooking, 
 even on such occasions a lobster Newburgh or other dish that needs be 
 served piping hot to be eaten at its best may be brought on in 
 individual chafing-dishes. These are supplied with hot-water pans and 
 lamps. At a chafing-dish supper each guest can prepare his own rarebit. 
  
 Any operation in cooking that can be performed on the kitchen range may 
 be successfully carried out on the chafing-dish, provided one be skilled 
 in its use. But as the dining-room is usually chosen as the site in 
 which to test its possibilities, here it were well to confine one  '  s 
 efforts to such dishes as will not give rise to too much disorder. 
 Sautéing and frying it were better to reserve for the range and a 
 well-ventilated kitchen.
Have ready a pint of tomato pulp, from which the seeds have been 
 removed, seasoned with onion, celery or parsley, and sweet herbs. Put a 
 generous tablespoonful of butter into the blazer; add the tomato, and, 
 when hot, six eggs, slightly beaten, half a teaspoonful of salt and half 
 a saltspoonful of pepper. Stir until the contents are of a creamy 
 consistency. Serve with brownbread toast. 
  
  
 =Eggs and Mushrooms à la Dauphine.= 
  
 INGREDIENTS. 
  
 1 pint of thick tomato sauce, highly seasoned. 
 1 pint of mushrooms. 
 1/2 a teaspoonful of salt. 
 1/2 a saltspoonful of pepper. 
 6 eggs. 
  
 _Method._--Cook the mushrooms in the tomato sauce until tender; add the 
 seasoning and the eggs, which have been broken into a bowl. Lift the
whites carefully with a silver or wooden fork while cooking, until they 
 are set; then prick the yolks and let them mix with the tomato, whites 
 of the eggs and mushrooms. Serve quite soft on toast. 
  
  
 =Scotch Woodcock.= 
  
 Make a cup of white sauce; add one tablespoonful of essence of anchovies 
 and five hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters lengthwise. 
  
  
 =Eggs à la Italienne.= 
  
 INGREDIENTS. 
  
 5 eggs. 
 1 cup of milk. 
 1/2 a cup of boiled spaghetti, chopped. 
 1 tablespoonful of butter. 
 1/2 a cup of fresh mushrooms, sliced.
1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 
 1 scant teaspoonful of salt. 
 White pepper. 
  
 _Method._--Melt the butter in the blazer and sauté in it the sliced 
 mushrooms; add the milk and spaghetti, and, when heated thoroughly, put 
 the blazer in the bath and add the beaten eggs. Stir and cook until the 
 eggs have thickened; then add the parsley and seasoning, and serve at 
 once. 
  
  
 =Eggs à la Parisienne.= 
  
 Butter thickly the inner sides of as many dariole moulds as there are 
 individuals to serve. Then sprinkle them thickly with fine-chopped 
 parsley, ham or tongue. Break an egg into each mould, taking care not 
 to break the yolk; sprinkle over the tops a little salt and pepper, and 
 set in the blazer surrounded by hot water to two-thirds the height of 
 the moulds. If, after a time, the water boils, even with the lamp turned 
 low, put the blazer into the bath and continue cooking, until the eggs
are set. The eggs should be covered while cooking. When cooked, turn 
 from the moulds and serve with a purée of tomatoes. Half a cup of sliced 
 mushrooms added to the purée improves this dish. 
  
  
 =Curried Eggs.= 
  
 (See cut facing page 186.) 
  
 INGREDIENTS. 
  
 6 eggs, cooked, in water just below the boiling-point, 
 20 minutes. 
 1/2 a cup of stock (fish, veal or chicken). 
 1/2 a cup of milk. 
 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, or 1 teaspoonful of cornstarch. 
 1/2 a teaspoonful of curry-powder. 
 1 slice of onion. 
 Teaspoonful of lemon juice.
Salt and pepper to taste. 
  
 _Method._--Cook the onion in the butter a few minutes, then remove it 
 and add the flour and curry powder; when frothy add the milk and stock. 
 As soon as the boiling-point is reached, set the blazer into the 
 hot-water pan and add the eggs cut in quarters. Season with salt and 
 serve on sippets of toast. 
  
 Light meats, fish, oysters and lobsters may be prepared in the same way, 
 omitting the half-cup of milk in the case of oysters. Chickens  '   livers 
 may also be prepared by the same recipe, in which case the livers should 
 have been cooked previously. Or they may be sautéd in a little hot 
 butter in one dish, while the sauce is made in another. 
  
  
 =Shirred Eggs.= 
  
 Butter four or five shirring-dishes. To half a cup of grated bread 
 crumbs and half a cup of chopped chicken or ham add enough cream to mix 
 to a smooth, moist consistency, like butter. Season to taste with salt
saucepan; when hot add two-thirds a cup of rather coarse bread crumbs; 
 stir over a hot fire till they are brown and crisp. Sprinkle over the 
 timbales and sauce. Add a sprig of parsley to the top of each timbale. 
  
  
 =Pan-Broiling.= 
  
 Chops, birds, venison, hamburg, sirloin and other steaks, even spring 
 chickens, may be cooked successfully in the chafing-dish; but they are 
 not the dishes upon which an amateur should begin his experiments. Heat 
 the blazer very hot, brush over the surface with a brush dipped in olive 
 oil (or use a butter-ball and a fork), lay in the article to be cooked, 
 sear upon one side, turn and sear upon the other; repeat, turning and 
 cooking until done to taste; five minutes will suffice for small lamb 
 chops. Serve with 
  
  
 =Maître d  '  Hôtel Butter.= 
  
 Beat four tablespoonfuls of butter to a cream; add half a teaspoonful of
salt and a few grains of pepper, also one tablespoonful of parsley, 
 chopped very fine, and one tablespoonful of lemon juice, very slowly. 
  
  
 =Fillets of Beef, Mushroom Sauce.= 
  
 Have half a dozen slices cut crosswise from a neatly trimmed fillet of 
 beef. The slices may be cut of any thickness desired, but from half to 
 three-fourths an inch is preferable for chafing-dish cookery. Melt two 
 tablespoonfuls of butter in a hot blazer; lay in the meat, and cook four 
 or five minutes, turning every ten seconds. The heat should be well 
 maintained throughout the cooking. Season with salt when half cooked. In 
 another blazer make a cup of brown sauce; brown two tablespoonfuls of 
 butter, add four tablespoonfuls of flour, and, when this is well 
 browned, add half a cup of very rich brown stock and half a cup of 
 liquid from the mushroom can. Season to taste with Kitchen Bouquet, 
 salt, and a few drops of tabasco sauce, then add half a bottle of 
 mushrooms, cut in halves. Serve as soon as the mushrooms are hot. 
  
 
"      "    with Ale, 184 
 Whipped Cream Sandwiches, 133 
 White Hashed Potatoes, 199 
 Wine Cake (Baba), 216 
 Woodcock Scotch, 190, 207 
 Woodcock Toast, 206 
  
 Yorkshire Rarebit, 186 
  
 [Illustration: BOOKS THE BEST COMPANIONS] 
  
  
  
  
 PRACTICAL COOKING & SERVING 
  
 [Illustration] 
  
 *       *       *       *       * 
 
_By Janet McKenzie Hill_ 
  
 Of the Boston Cooking School 
  
 This practical, up-to-date, and comprehensive work contains a "liberal 
 education" in the selection, cooking, and serving of food. It is for the 
 novice and expert alike, and the many illustrations (including pictures 
 of utensils, tables for every sort of meal, decorations for festal 
 occasions, dishes ready for serving, etc.) are absolutely invaluable to 
 every housekeeper. 
  
 =With washable aluminum cloth binding and 200 colored and half-tone 
 illustrations. Price, net, $2.00. Postage 20 cents= 
  
  
  
  
 The Pleasures of the Table 
  
 By George H. Ellwanger
